Título da notícia	Resumo da notícia	Data da notícia	Texto da notícia	Nome da startup	Nome do veículo	Data e hora da Captura	URL da notícia
Streamus Turns Chrome Into A Fast, Free, YouTube-Powered Spotify Alternative		January 24, 2014	Use Chrome? Listen to a lot music throughout the day? Check out this extension. Take a music streaming service like Rdio or Spotify, and boil it down to the absolute basics — searching for songs, adding songs to playlists, and playing said songs. Power it with YouTube’s massive (and sometimes questionably legal) music library. Keep it super fast, and super simple. That’s Streamus. Streamus is a Chrome extension that has been quietly in development for the past few months, but has just recently started climbing up the charts. Streamus Streamus lets you search for a song and start playing it in all of about 3 seconds. There’s no tab to switch to, and no app to open. Here’s what it looks like: You just type “Streamus” into Chrome’s Omnibar (read: the fancy name for Chrome’s all-in-one address bar/search box), hit tab (or space), then type the name of the song you’re looking for. Streamus almost instantly returns a dropdown with the YouTube results — just click one, and the audio starts playing immediately in the background, all without taking you away from your current page.. Want more than a one off song? Want to build a big ol’ playlist of tunes to get you through the day? Streamus will do that too. It adds a little button to the navigation area of Chrome, and clicking it opens up a dropdown menu that looks like this: From there, you’re able to add songs to playlists, save playlists for later listening, or enable a “Radio” mode that tries to find tracks you’ll dig based on the artists you’ve picked so far. There are very few frills, and that’s the way it’s meant to be. There’s no cheesy social networking elements, no “Popular Artists” metrics. You pick songs, it plays songs. Plus, the developer of the extension seems like a pretty cool guy. He’s been documenting each new build on a little sub-reddit for months now, allowing his users to ask questions about each release — and for that matter, allowing for him to ask questions (like ‘Is bug x effecting you?’) of his users. on a little sub-reddit Of course, being that it’s totally free and still in an early Beta stage, it’s not without its faults. As it’s all pulled from YouTube’s (largely user-uploaded) music collection, there’s a fair amount of cruft. While I find that the top result is usually the song I’m looking for, that’s not always the case. Some songs are mislabeled. Some are just iffy quality. Sometimes you get a wonky live version of a song that someone recorded on their phone while, judging by the quality, said phone was seemingly placed inside of a jar of jam. But it’s fast, it’s free, and it’s a damned nice way to quickly play that song you’ve had stuck in your head all day. It’ll be interesting to see how YouTube responds to this if it gets even kind of huge. Streamus only plays the audio from a video, and there’s little-to-no sign that this stuff is being fetched from YouTube once you’ve got the extension installed — so it’s easy to imagine that YouTube might get a bit miffed. You can find the extension in the Chrome Web Store here. find the extension in the Chrome Web Store here	Streammus	Tech Crunch	02/02/2020 03:40:23	https://techcrunch.com/2014/01/24/streamus-turns-chrome-into-a-fast-free-youtube-powered-spotify-alternative/
The Pressures Driving Adaptive Re-Use and Silicon Valley's Strange Reverse Commute		July 22, 2014	Given Google’s recent purchase of a building on the Embarcadero and the city’s move to effectively block Pinterest from relocating its headquarters into a specially-zoned building in the design district, I wanted to point out a few things. recent purchase of a building on the Embarcadero the city’s move to effectively block Pinterest from relocating its headquarters into a specially-zoned building in the design district San Francisco is now at record employment levels after adding 60,000 jobs over the last four years. Commercial rents are hovering near their dot-com highs at $64.45 a square foot. Even though the city has the most aggressive office construction pipeline in the last thirty years, most of the space coming online in next two years is already pre-leased to tenants like Dropbox, LinkedIn and Salesforce (see below). after adding 60,000 jobs over the last four years hovering near their dot-com highs at $64.45 a square foot the city has the most aggressive office construction pipeline in the last thirty years Dropbox LinkedIn Salesforce The city is about to run into a nearly two-decade old law called Proposition M that caps the amount of office space that can be built in any period. Under Proposition M, there is an annual allocation of about 875,000 square feet that can go toward large commercial real estate projects in San Francisco. That amount rolls over into following years, so we have about 2 million square feet under Proposition M available for allocation. However, there are 8 million square feet of projects in pre-approval, so developers are scrambling to get their projects entitled in time. annual allocation of about 875,000 square feet there are 8 million square feet of projects in pre-approval, There are good intentions that went into the San Francisco’s historically cautious approach to growth. Proposition M was created as the city erected the equivalent of thirty-seven Transamerica Pyramids between 1979 and 1985. Residents became concerned about the “Manhattanization” of the city as tall buildings ate into available sunlight, created wind tunnels downtown and encroached upon the historic enclaves of Italian North Beach and Chinatown. equivalent of thirty-seven Transamerica Pyramids between 1979 and 1985 But there are also consequences and trade-offs, as there are with any policy choices. Here are two architectural appraisals of San Francisco, taken 30 years apart: This is October 2, 1983, when the city embarked on a strategy of restricted growth through the “Downtown Plan,” which was passed the year before Proposition M won voter approval: This is October 2, 1983 “The plan, which was formally presented by the San Francisco planning department to the City Planning Commission last month, strongly limits the size and location of new skyscrapers, requires the preservation of several hundred older buildings, and sets specific design guidelines to assure that new skyscrapers are slender and tapered rather than boxy in profile. If it is adopted, it would give San Francisco the most restrictive downtown zoning of any major city in the United States. It is, moreover, one of the most complete prescriptions for growth any American downtown has been given, for it specifies, block by block, what should happen in this city’s now densely built-up downtown…. The plan is intelligent and sensitive in its sense of what makes this city special. It emerges out of an understanding that the need for continued growth must be balanced by a cautious, knowing sense of the past, and by a respect for what is small and psychologically comfortable.” Here’s May 29, 2014, as the lack of new commercial office space creates economic pressures for ‘adaptive re-use’ of older buildings: Here’s May 29, 2014 “Tech firms have taken over more than three million square feet of existing office and industrial space. That’s nearly the equivalent of New York’s new 1 World Trade Center. Driven partly by young tech workers’ desire to live in cities, the trend helps explain why those suburban office-park projects like Mr. Foster’s seem far behind the curve even before they’ve been completed. The phenomenon is not entirely new, of course. Back in the 1990s, tech firms took over bunches of old warehouses with exposed brick, tall ceilings and no corner offices during the first dot-com boom. The buildings were cheap. Traditional downtown tenants like law and finance weren’t interested in them at the time. This new wave is also opportunistic. But in a much hotter real estate market with lower start-up costs, it’s driven as well by a taste for “authenticity,” “character” and other buzzwords today’s tech firms love. At the same time, constructing anything new here is a major headache. The city is crippled by an obstructionist set of city planning rules — the consequence of local activism and a Talmudic bureaucracy. Legislation from the mid-’80s caps the total amount of new office space that can be built here. All this contributes to why adaptive reuse has taken hold.” Competition For Existing Space Because of the lack of office space coming online and changing aesthetic tastes, startups chose older buildings and warehouses in the first dot-com boom. That continues to this day. I toured one of them earlier this month as Zendesk moved into a former department store built in 1909 on Market Street (pictured at the top). Its windows are framed by terra cotta Corinthian columns and the interior has exposed brick and bits of graffiti left over from years of vacancy. Two firms called Cannae Partners and Westport Capital Partners bought it in 2012 for $9.5 million and renovated it for another $9.5 million. Zendesk Zendesk’s new office on Market Street before it underwent a $9.5 million renovation. It was filled with pigeons, trash and all kinds of discarded junk. Zendesk’s new office on Market Street before it underwent a $9.5 million renovation. It was filled with pigeons, trash and all kinds of discarded junk. The new office after renovation on Mid-Market street between 6th and 7th street. The new office after renovation on Mid-Market street between 6th and 7th street. While many of the city’s historic buildings are being preserved and renovated, the lack of office space is fueling a brutal competition between startups and lower-rent tenants like non-profits, many of which cater to nearby low-income communities. tenants like non-profits, many of which cater to nearby low-income communities Earlier this month, the city’s board of supervisors blocked Pinterest from moving into the Design Center because it would have meant displacement for dozens of design showroom tenants. The space wasn’t zoned for office use; it was specially zoned for production, distribution and repair-design (PDR). But there was an exception that allowed buildings designated as historic landmarks to convert to office uses. The local supervisor for that district, Malia Cohen, who is running for re-election in November, tabled the landlord’s appeal to change the building’s zoning. “This was about solving a problem in the most fair, equitable way possible,” said Cohen, who said that the decision would have set a precedent for more than a dozen nearby buildings with PDR zoning. “You’re more than welcome to come to San Francisco and have a business. But we are unwilling to sacrifice PDR space for office space, when you consider that office space is being actively built already and PDR space is not.” Pinterest will likely have to look elsewhere. However, at the end of the last quarter, there were only six contiguous spaces of Class A office space with more than 100,000 square feet available in San Francisco. There are more than a dozen companies competing for these slots. there were only six contiguous spaces of Class A office space There are more than a dozen companies competing for these slots. The Reverse Commute The restriction on office space also contributes to Silicon Valley’s unusual reverse commute where tech workers bus in from San Francisco to the South Bay. After Proposition M passed, the amount of office space built annually declined to a trickle, partly because of the law and partly because of the economic fallout from the 1980s Savings and Loans Crisis. declined to a trickle Supporters of Proposition M point out that it saved San Francisco from a glut of office space and a spike in vacancy rates that cities like New York, Los Angeles and Denver saw after the boom ended late 1980s. a spike in vacancy rates that cities like New York, Los Angeles and Denver saw after the boom ended late 1980s. But it also meant that the center of the Bay Area’s workforce gradually shifted south as job growth favored Silicon Valley’s big suburban campuses and industrial parks. In 1985, San Francisco made up 22 percent of the Bay Area’s workforce. By 2012, the city made up 17 percent of the region’s workforce after ticking up again over the past decade. 22 percent the city made up 17 percent That trend reversed beginning with the dot-com boom. In the 1960s, corporate interests envisioned that San Francisco would become a “world class” city and gateway to the Pacific with with workers commuting in via BART and the highways from the suburbs. But the city politically revolted against that vision in the mid-1980s, seeking to insulate residential communities from the boom-and-bust cycles of capitalism. Instead, regional growth subverted that intent. While the city didn’t produce office space for major corporate tenants, everyone including the peninsula cities and historical Silicon Valley didn’t produce housing. Hence, the reverse commute. Office rents are about one-third cheaper per square foot in Silicon Valley than they are in San Francisco, but the median rent for a residential listing in Mountain View is roughly the same as it is in San Francisco. So today, San Francisco’s neighborhoods and longstanding communities are beset by gentrification as tech workers move in. one-third cheaper per square foot in Silicon Valley median rent roughly the same San Francisco chose slow-growth policies in the early 1980s just as major cities on both U.S. coasts began a three-decade demographic trend of population increases that reversed post-war “white flight” to the suburbs. These policies and the lack of regional coordination exacerbated big economic and demographic shifts that are frankly beyond the control of any single city. The nuclear family waned, giving rise to more single Americans than ever before. Changes in the labor market meant more flexible employment with workers hopping into new jobs every few years. All of these transitions favor the serendipitous collisions made possible by urban environments. If the city doesn’t revisit the caps, there will continue to be intense pressure and competition for existing space in old buildings, which will push out lower paying tenants. Tech may spill over into Oakland’s downtown district, where office vacancy rates hover at 15.5 percent compared to San Francisco’s 10.6 percent rate, which is the lowest nationwide behind New York and Portland. If current trends hold, commercial real estate firm Cassidy Turley says San Francisco’s vacancy rates may dip to 5 percent by year-end, driving rents higher. where office vacancy rates hover at 15.5 percent San Francisco’s 10.6 percent rate, which is the lowest nationwide behind New York and Portland. vacancy rates may dip to 5 percent by year-end If the city does revisit the caps — which will not affect office supply for years in any case — the region will have to figure out housing for all those workers too. Tough choices loom ahead.	Thirty Seven Trend	Tech Crunch	02/02/2020 03:40:58	https://techcrunch.com/2014/07/22/the-pressures-driving-adaptive-re-use-and-silicon-valleys-strange-reverse-commute/
Magic Leap is real and it's a janky marvel		October 9, 2018	After years of speculation, some mockery, and more than a little befuddlement, the Magic Leap augmented headset is arriving in the hands of developers and users — and its first product is a somewhat janky piece of magic. some mockery Magic Leap After officially announcing the availability of the product for pre-orders last month,  the company is pulling back the curtains on all of the prestidigitation it’s been cooking for the past several years. announcing the availability of the product for pre-orders past several years. Magic Leap Announces Its Augmented Reality Developer Platform Magic Leap Announces Its Augmented Reality Developer Platform The company’s first developer conference is slated for tomorrow, with a keynote bright and early in the morning, but the $2.3 billion dollar augmented reality headset manufacturer let a slew of VIPs, media types (including your humble reporter) take a look at the first official content partnerships to come from its formerly super secret studios. Development studios like Weta Workshop (whose partnership began with Magic Leap nearly a decade ago) and Wingnut AR (the augmented reality development studio founded by Peter Jackson) have revealed new games that involve battling robots and spider infestations (respectively); while the medical imaging company Brainlab and the direct to consumer furniture retailer and design consulting service, Wayfair, pitched their augmented reality wares to show the business use case for Magic Leap’s magic leap into virtual reality. Weta Workshop began with Magic Leap Wingnut AR founded by Peter Jackson Brainlab In all some sixteen companies pitched demos at the curtain-raising event today. Earlier this afternoon Weta just debuted their augmented reality game as a preview to the Magic Leap  conference and it’s impressive. The robot battling Dr. Grordbort’s Invaders is the clearest vision of what Magic Leap’s platform can do. Magic Leap Dr. Grordbort’s Invaders Magic Leap teased the two companies’ vision for what immersive augmented game play could like in its promotional materials for years, but the culmination of the development work the two have undertaken is about three to five hours of gameplay battling robots that appear from the walls and floors and doors of any room. It’s (pardon the easy pun) magic. According to Weta games director Greg Broadmore, the final game is the result of six years of collaboration between the creative studio and Magic Leap. Rony Abovitz, Magic Leap’s visionary chief executive, first reached out to Weta with a vision for “Our Blue” a far-reaching, immersive, science fiction-influenced immersive world that Abovitz wanted Weta to help realize. Abovitz kept in touch with the Weta team and as he began putting the pieces together for Magic Leap, brought the studio on board to develop content. Dr. Grodbort’s is the first fruits of that partnership and it’s pretty stunning. first fruits of that partnership Setting aside the problems that Magic Leap still has with field of view and with slight glitches in the game mechanics (which could entirely have been the fault of this author), Dr. Grordbort’s lays out the Magic Leap headset as a convincing gaming device (albeit at a somewhat price-prohibitive $2,295 apiece). In the game, users are given a backstory by the eponymous Dr. Grordbort, who informs players that they’re the last best hope to save the world from a robotic alien invasion. From there on in, it’s about picking up a blaster and shooting the potential robot invaders who appear from portals around a room. To start the game, a user maps their space by wandering around it with the Magic Leap on. Once the device has the lay of the land ( a process that can take up to four minutes — depending on size) the narrative will commence and the user is drawn into Dr. Grordbort’s world and gameplay. “The game helped shape the platform,” said Brodmore. “Dr. Grordbort’s was the problem and Magic Leap is the solution.” Without the close relationship to Magic Leap that Weta enjoyed, the game from Wingnut’s studio was far less robust, but no less enjoyable. In their first foray into Magic Leap’s world, the augmented reality studio created a game that puts the user into the most bizarre job training session they’ve ever experienced. As the new hire at an extermination company that deals with some fairly vicious and viscous insects, the user is put through some paces with how to kill virtual bugs in real space. The mapping engines and graphics are exceptional, the narrator walking a user through the game shows off Magic Leap’s exceptional use of sound technology and the humor in the game is reminiscent of some of the best Wallace and Gromit set pieces. Beginning with a simple bat, and working up through a flamethrower, players were instructed in how to kill various creepy crawlies and concoct a serum to attract others. I’m not a fan of first person shooters (or much of a gamer in general), but that Wingnut game was damn fun. And if gaming was one side of the spell that Magic Leap was hoping to weave with new users, business use cases were the other. In partnership with Brainlab, the company is trying to show how its toolkit can be used in both educational and operational theaters for physicians and surgeons. In a demonstration users were encourage to take a look at a replica of a brain tumor patient’s brain scan in three dimensions. The device is aimed at helping doctors plan surgeries and understand the potential ramifications of different approaches to removing growths in a brain. Meanwhile, the retailer Wayfair put users through a demonstration of its first Magic Leap application. A visualization tool that takes furniture from a virtual showroom into the real space that furniture would occupy. It’s part of a longterm skunkworks development project set up within the online retailer to explore applications for augmented reality in a bit to sell more stuff to more folks without the need for a physical showroom (although Wayfair has launched a few popups earlier this month) has launched a few popups earlier this month Behind all of this is a simple truth. Magic Leap needs content — almost as much as it needed to reduce the form factor and improve the usability of its first headset. Magic Leap needs content It has achieved those last two demands above the expectations of even the most hardened critic. Wearables still look goofy, but they feel good and the pack that powers the Magic Leap experience is among the best — lightweight and wearable, and with a three-hour battery charge, among the best in the industry. There’s still some assembly required, as a user needs to determine the type of headset they’ll need and select a nosebridge that gives the headset the proper lift so its hardware can work properly. If a user wears glasses, it’s going to require a special prescription that can be ordered separately as an attachment that fits into the headset. The other pieces of hardware packaged with the Magic Leap include a motion sensing hand controller (similar to what users have experienced as part of any video game console) and a hip pack with the processing power of a notebook computer. The device doesn’t need to be tethered to a computer, but it does only work indoors. Setting aside the limitations of the first generation of a hardware device, the Magic Leap is about as impressive a piece of augmented or virtual reality hardware as I’ve seen. Other companies may have better fields of view and a more compact device, but they lack the variety of content that makes Magic Leap’s offerings shine. The early partnerships the company has inked have, indeed, paid off. better fields of view and a more compact device And as it rolls out its offerings the company is learning the lessons of wearable headsets past. is learning the lessons of wearable headsets past Google Will Now Educate Glass Explorers Over Hangouts, No Barge Necessary Google Will Now Educate Glass Explorers Over Hangouts, No Barge Necessary Its initial customers — in Chicago, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, San Francisco, and Seattle — will receive a home visit from a Magic Leap employee who will walk them through the way the product works in a thirty minute to sixty minute demo. That’s the same level of bespoke treatment that Google Glass offered to its initial explorers. One benefit of an AR headset like Magic Leap’s is that it’s much, much easier to navigate than a fully immersive VR headset. Another, is the flexibility it offers in terms of applications from a mixed reality setting. “We think of this as a productivity device,” Sadalgi said. “Browsing for stuff on the web. That’s the computing environment. Your space is your screen and your space becomes another variable on the computing platform. We want to make people love the space they live in. Using mixed reality to … the app that we’re presenting today we think of it as a design experience.” One of the big breakthroughs in the company’s platform is the controller and how easy it is to use, as Sadaigi noted in our conversation. “The controller is doing a lot of work for you. [The company] is giving you something new… that is kind of the old, but in a new form. It’s simplified the experience to swiping and clicking.” More complicated interactions can be handled by using the voice interface the company has built into the device and the eye scrolling feature that’s part of the inside out tracking the company uses. Behind all of this is Abovitz and his crazy vision for a new platform for computing. “That decision to start something new and bigger and more ambitious, to try to change all of computing, was a bit nuts. It’s like Bilbo Baggins having to step out of the Shire,” Abovitz told VentureBeat earlier this year. “If you spend enough hours in a Magic Leap system, it’s almost impossible to go back to your phone or computer or television. You realize that they’re very thin slices. Magic Leap gives you a giant volume of computing. When you actually get to play with it, spatial computing means you work within a volume, not just a slice.” Abovitz told VentureBeat earlier this year	Bilbbo	Tech Crunch	02/02/2020 03:41:25	https://techcrunch.com/2018/10/09/magic-leap-is-real-and-its-a-janky-marvel/
Happy Birthday, D&D		January 27, 2014	On January 26, 1974 the world changed. A panoply of creatures popped into existence – Owlbears lumbered out of the woods while Bullettes snuffled out of caves, blinking in the sunlight. Adventurers donned metal plate armor and led their ambling pack horses into darkened dungeons. Traps sprung, capturing teams of dwarves in iron nets while gold glittered tantalizingly close to a shambling skeleton. For some, the ’70s were an era of free love. For others they were the era of untrammeled adventure. Dungeons & Dragons, the pen-and-paper role-playing game that engulfed so many of our childhoods, turned 40 this weekend to little fanfare. Originally created by Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson, the game built on many RPG mechanics that were beginning to percolate out of board gaming at the time. Like Diplomacy before it, D&D games were engrossing romps through worlds yet unvisited by the player. However, unlike the traditional board and die drivel, D&D borrowed from the popular mythologies of the day and the strange world of J.R.R. Tolkein and his ilk. The result – an all-encompassing game that took cues from improvisational theatre, model-building, war gaming, and political strategy – has become a signifier in the tech world and an interstitial generation of pre-electronic nerds as much as the bong and bell-bottoms defined the generation that spawned these role-players. Gary Gygax Dave Arneson Diplomacy Things didn’t look good for D&D parent company TSR when they were bought out by Wizards Of The Coast who created the third and fourth editions of the game. A fifth edition is planned for this year. D&D created nearly everything we hold dear. The games we love today – from Skyrim to Halo – all owe gratitude to the sweeping expanse of D&D gaming. Western fantasy is basically one long D&D game played solo while even the team structures and hierarchies we’ve come to use in business – from black belt consultants to agile teams – owe something to the camaraderie of kitchen-table dungeon crawls and the language of the Internet (arch, knowing, snarky, and at the same time earnest and obsessive) is the language of the RPG gamer. It is hard to overstate how culturally important D&D was. It made us nerds powerful, and gave us a sword, a shield, and a dragon to slay in some dark corner. Like Bilbo tasked with robbing Smaug, we take the lessons of D&D and make beautiful art, conduct business, and interact as humans. It’s something we need and I’m glad it was born. [Image from Diterlizzi which you should read if you want to learn where a lot of the original monsters came from.] Diterlizzi via Yahoo via Yahoo	Bilbbo	Tech Crunch	02/02/2020 03:41:37	https://techcrunch.com/2014/01/27/happy-birthday-dd/
US Government Says No Single Entity Or Nation Will Control The Internet		October 13, 2014	The U.S. reiterated its stance in favor of a multistakeholder model for Internet governance today. Speaking before the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN), U.S. Secretary of Commerce Penny Pritzker said that the United States will “not allow the global Internet to be co-opted by any person, entity, or nation seeking to substitute their parochial worldview for the collective wisdom of this community.” At a minimum, the United States appears cognizant of the risks at hand. reiterated its stance said that Earlier this year, the United States’ National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) decided to “transition” parts of managing the Internet to the “global multistakeholder community.” decided The decision has not been without detractors. Could the change lead to an Internet takeover by an authoritarian government, or perhaps a stultified bureaucratic entity that bends to the will of incumbent powers? not been without detractors Pritzker’s firm language was supplemented by the following section of her remarks, which stated, flatly, that the United States will not allow any single nation to control the Internet: “Next week, at the International Telecommunication Union Conference in Korea, we will see proposals to put governments in charge of Internet governance. You can rest assured that the United States will oppose these efforts at every turn.” Control of the Internet is no small matter, but it is one that is perhaps best left to bodies who work in cooperation than to any single national, or international entity. With whom would you trust this task? (Your Gandalf joke involving the ring scene with Frodo in Bilbo’s house is quite welcome here.) That lesson was brought to bear in the wake of the Snowden revelations that detailed how deeply the United States was willing to subvert the core structure of the Internet in the name of national defence. Condemnations among some of the stakeholders of the multi-stakeholder model followed, calling for a faster transition away from U.S. leadership of the Internet’s governance. among some of the stakeholders of the multi-stakeholder model followed faster transition Pritzker continued: “I am ‘all in’ when it comes to the global debate over Internet governance.  And we will preserve and protect a free and open [I]nternet.” Her comments today reprise what the head of the NTIA said just a few weeks ago. As such, it seems that we have internal coherence in our government in terms of our plan for the Internet. said just a few weeks ago No matter what the final outcome may be, in no way should the United Nations — or any such organization — or league of nations be allowed control over the Internet. The powers of moral conservatism cannot be allowed to vote into place controls over the free speech of the world. The Internet is too precious for that. Oddly enough, our own Senator Marco Rubio already made that point. our own Senator Marco Rubio already made that point IMAGE BY FLICKR USER MIKE MOZART UNDER CC BY 2.0 LICENSE MIKE MOZART CC BY 2.0	Bilbbo	Tech Crunch	02/02/2020 03:41:49	https://techcrunch.com/2014/10/13/us-government-says-no-single-entity-or-nation-will-control-the-internet/
Peter Thiel Launches Mithril: A New $402 Million Late-Stage Fund		June 20, 2012	As an investor, Peter Thiel may be best known for his angel investments, most notably, his legendary call with Facebook. But now he’s got something for companies that sit just on the cusp between public and private markets. He’s launching a $402 million growth fund called Mithril for late-stage, privately-held companies. Yes, it’s named after Mithril from the Lord of the Rings. (Bilbo Baggins gave Frodo a shirt made of Mithril chain mail once.) “It’s the choice form of silver from the deepest mines. It’s the toughest substance there is,” said Jim O’Neill, a partner in the fund who is also the former managing director of Clarium, and co-founder of the 20 under 20 Thiel Fellowship. “Peter and I are fans of Tolkien.” the 20 under 20 Thiel Fellowship Mithril won’t participate as early as Thiel’s venture firm Founders Fund does and it doesn’t handle publicly-traded assets like his hedge fund Clarium Capital. It invests across the entire technology industry and the fund doesn’t seem to have any preferences between consumer and enterprise companies. Nor will it shy away from investments in the clean energy and biotech space, not unlike its early-stage peer Founders Fund, which is known for bolder and riskier bets in gene sequencing and cancer treatment companies. That fund just raised $625 million last year. which is known for bolder and riskier bets in gene sequencing and cancer treatment companies. just raised $625 million last year. “This completes the whole geological picture,” O’Neill said. “Founders Fund is focused on startups and they do a great job at that. Clarium is global macro and focused on commodities, currencies and typically much more liquid investments. This fills in the final gap, which is growth-stage.” Joining O’Neill, is Ajay Royan, who has also been a managing director at Clarium. Clarium isn’t quite as storied as Founders Fund, though. It managed $7.2 billion at its peak but then shrunk to under $1 billion after the 2008 financial crisis — not unlike many other hedge funds, which also suffered losses or faced redemptions during the downturn. shrunk to under $1 billion after the 2008 financial crisis O’Neill says Mithril won’t be biased to co-invest or follow on with Founders Fund’s deals. “Mithril is a very separate organization with different teams and different decision processes,” O’Neill said. “It will take a more economic perspective on what potential exists in various industries.” As for the possibility of a late-stage correction following Facebook’s lackluster post-IPO performance, O’Neill remains pretty bullish. of a late-stage correction “We’re very willing to be patient with a growth cycle that might take years to become apparent to other counter parties,” he said. “We think in the long run this space makes sense for investors at all stages, even though there might be peaks, valleys, twists and turns in the short run.”	Bilbbo	Tech Crunch	02/02/2020 03:42:00	https://techcrunch.com/2012/06/19/peter-thiel-mithril/
The Orp Smart Horn AKA The Smorn Is Cooler Than It Sounds		February 4, 2013	High atop Weathertop where the Kings of Old Middle Earth once surveyed their kingdoms, the Smorn leers knowingly at the vale below. His hand rubs the grass and sniffs the air – hobbits had been here, for certain. He raises his long snout and begins to howl, the sound echoing off the swart hills and into the darkness below. JK all the way. Actually, the Orp Smart Horn AKA The Smorn is a bike horn built by Tory Orzeck of Portland, a former GE Plastics and Nike designer who, after a run in with a few nasty cars, decided to build a “hearable” horn in a small, rechargeable package. The Smorn can blast trucks as they pass or, using the Wail Tail trigger, you can move the decibels and pitch up and down. Orp Smart Horn AKA The Smorn The horn blows out a 76 dB tap or you can hit a 96 dB blast to wake sleepy drivers out of their texting stupor. The project has six days to go and is near its $90,000 goal so you’re almost guaranteed product when it funds. $45 gets you a Smorn in white, blue, orange, or “snot green.” $55 gets you a Glorp – a glow-in-the-dark model. The Smorn also has four front LEDs can strobe, and you recharge it via USB. It is also waterproof and you can set a special Pulse mode that will beep regularly as you ride down the street, keeping people aware of your presence. Tory wanted to solve the problem of bikers getting hit by drivers who were oblivious to the cyclists around them. He writes: We live here in Portland, Oregon, considered one of the most bike friendly places in the world. There are bike paths, bike lanes and designated bike friendly roads throughout the city. But no matter what, our rides mean sharing the road with cars. Having said that, bicycle versus vehicle accidents have steadily increased in Portland as more people take to the road on their bikes. Our project was prompted by both this phenomena as well as a few particularly well documented accidents in Portland involving cyclists and commercial trucks. The problem was that the cyclist was neither seen nor heard. While I know that Frodo and Bilbo will never have to fight the evil Smorn in their travels towards Mordor, it is nice to know that Strider would be able to find them if they pulled the Wail Tail in a time of need.	Bilbbo	Tech Crunch	02/02/2020 03:42:11	https://techcrunch.com/2013/02/04/the-orp-smart-horn-aka-the-smorn-is-cooler-than-it-sounds/
Living in the past: Commodore 64 on a Symbian phone		January 27, 2009	While there are other emulators out for the Commodore 64 (C64), this is based off of the first one, that appeared in 1991. The two downloadable components to running the emulator are called “Frodo” and “Bilbo”. You’ll need to download them both in order to be able to use it. download them if you’re not sure what an emulator is, or want to know more, check out this orientation we did earlier this year. this orientation	Bilbbo	Tech Crunch	02/02/2020 03:42:46	https://techcrunch.com/2009/01/27/living-in-the-past-commodore-64-on-a-symbian-phone/
The Volata high-tech bike is designed to have everything a cyclist needs		July 19, 2016	San Francisco-based Volata Cycles looked around at the bicycle market and found it lacking, especially when it came to included options. Bikes are still largely sold as basic packages, with a rider expected to add-on key items like lights, and if you’re even thinking about on-board computers or advanced anti-theft, you’re wading into a complex and expensive third-party market. Volata Cycles The Volata, on the other hand, is meant to be everything you need to ride, right from the start. The bike has a fairly high price tag as a result ($299 up-front for a pre-order, with the balance of $3,200 due at delivery – but for that price you get a built-in computer with a 2.4-inch color screen, with Strava integration through Volata’s own app. A rider can control the on-board computer with a thumb joystick integrated into the handlebar, letting them page through views that show weather, temperature, ride info, turn-by-turn directions and heart-rate info if a user is wearing a compatible Bluetooth heart rate monitor (including Apple Watch). Push notifications from your phone also show up on the display. Also included int the price tag are built-in, automated front and rear lights that turn on when it gets dark and turn off when it lightens. An electronic horn lets you alert riders, pedestrians and drivers around you to your presence, and all of the electronic components are powered by your riding – a dynamo hub on the front wheel charges your battery automatically. $3,499 is a decent investment, so Volata also built smart security features into the bike. It has a three-part anti-theft system, which starts with motion detection that looks for potential theft, then triggers an alarm and sends a notification to your smartphone when it detects what might be bad behavior. And if the thief gets away, it has built-in GPS for location tracking. Of course, if you don’t like the bike, all the whiz bangs and doodads in the world aren’t going to change your mind. Volata says it paid just as much attention to frame and geometry design, and it certainly went to the experts; Volata is designed in Italy, though the startup resides in San Francisco and all final assembly takes place in California. Founder Marco Salvioli has the chops to back up Volata’s claims, too: He’s worked in the R&D department at Fiat, as well as the research and innovation group at BMW. He explained to me that the all-in-one approach is better from an end-user perspective for a number of reasons. “Some features, like navigation, tracking and forecast can be provided by a smartphone mounted on the handlebar, but this would require the user to mount and dismount their phone on the bike every time, open multiple apps, use the smartphone’s battery and it’s sensitive to weather conditions,” he said. “We’ve followed an approach closer to Apple Car Play or Android Auto, where some logics run in the smartphone that stays in the rider’s pocket, and the bike’s built-in display shows such information without the user to turn anything on and off – without fragmenting the riding experience.” Volata isn’t the first bike startup to try to ‘smarten up’ the field with a high-tech approach. Canada’s Vanhawks created the Valour in 2014, a connected bike that raised over $100,000 on Kickstarter. Recent reports, however, suggest the company isn’t doing very well anymore, and I asked Salvioli why Volata stands to succeed where Vanhawks seems to have missed the mark. suggest the company isn’t doing very well anymore “The Valour was a great product but it was particularly criticized by bike community due to their hardware choices. This pushed many users back,” he explained. “Also it does not feature a display (so there is no visual UI except for the turn-by-turn LEDs) which is the core of Volata’s user interaction, or a horn, or automated lights. And their antitheft system is not based on a bike’s built in network connectivity (GSM) able to send the bike’s location to the internet anytime, and a built-in accelerometer that detects the theft attempt.” Volata will still have to ship product to customers in order to make its smart bike a reality, but at least it has working prototypes and a solid grasp of the engineering involved. The startup plans to start shipping its bikes in July of 2017, but it also intends to do test rides and demos in various locations between now and then.	DYNAMOTECH	Tech Crunch	02/02/2020 03:43:15	https://techcrunch.com/2016/07/19/volata-smart-bike/
Ken Segall, Dave McClure, Julia Hartz at The Europas		June 2, 2016	With less than 2 weeks to go to this year’s The Europas Startup Conference and Awards — the new type of tech conference devised in partnership with TechCrunch — I’m delighted to announce the full speaker line up for the day. The Europas Startup Conference and Awards new type of tech conference full speaker line up for the day In addition, the public vote on the shortlist across 27 categories ends today[ Voting has now ended]. I’m thrilled to announce that Ken Segall, legendary former Apple creative director, will be speaking at the Europas. Segall is the design and creativity guru who named the i-Mac and initiated the i-frenzy. He’s the author of New York Times Best Seller, “Insanely Simple: The Obsession That Drives Apple’s Success”. With a CV encompassing iconic brands IBM, BMW, Intel and Dell, Ken’s close working relationship with Steve Jobs first at NeXT and then at Apple, was a natural progression. Leading the team that created Apple’s renowned Think different campaign, Ken embraced Jobs’ ‘simplicity’ principle which saved Apple from near-extinction in 1997 to become one of the world’s most valuable companies. I’m also excited to have Dave McClure joining The Europas . Dave is the founding partner of 500 Startups, a venture capital firm and startup incubator in Silicon Valley founded by PayPal and Google alumni, with over $250M under management. He has been an investor in hundreds of companies around the world such as Credit Karma, Twilio, MakerBot, Wildfire Interactive, Viki, Mashery, SendGrid, Mint.com, and SlideShare, among others. The Europas Julia Hartz is responsible for the vision, strategy and growth of Eventbrite. Under her leadership, the company has become the largest global ticketing and event technology platform and received multiple awards for workplace culture and performance. These accolades include Fortune’s 100 Best Workplaces for Women and also for Millennials, Glassdoor’s 2016 Best Places to Work, and San Francisco Business Times’ Best Places to Work in the SF Bay Area list for seven years straight. Julia has been honored as one of Fortune’s 2015 40 Under 40 business leaders, Inc.’s 35 under 35 in 2014, and Fortune’s Most Powerful Women Entrepreneurs in 2013. SPEAKERS at The Europas Conference and Awards 2016 include (in alphabetical order) Jason Ball – Senior Director, Qualcomm Ventures Harry Briggs – Partner, BGF Ventures Nic Brisbourne – Managing Partner, Forward Partners Eileen Burbridge – Managing Partner, Passion Capital Jess Butcher – Co-founder, Blippar Suranga Chandratillake – General Partner, Balderton James Cook – Technology Editor, Business Insider Sonali de Rycker – General Partner, Accel Partners Tracy Doree – Founding Partner, Spring Partners Julia Hartz – CEO, Eventbrite John Henderson – Principal, White Star Capital Brynne Herbert – Founder, MOVE Guides Christian Hernandez – Managing Partner, White Star Capital Taavet Hinrikus – Co-founder & CEO, Transferwise Andy Hobsbawm – Co-founder & Chief Marketing Officer, EVRYTHNG Saul Klein – Partner, LocalGlobe Greg Marsh – CEO, Onefinestay Elizabeth Varley – Founder & CEO, Techhub Robin Wauters – Co-founder & Editor-in-chief, Tech.eu Michael Schneider – Founder, Service Wendy Tan White – General Partner, Entrepreneur First Sitar Teli – Managing Partner, Connect Partners Ida Tin – Co-founder & CEO, Clue Beatie Wolfe – Artist In addition we’ll have: Ruth Anderson – Director, KPMG Irra Ariella Khi – CEO, Vchain Tech Riku Asikainen – Angel Investor, Finnish Business Angels Network Azeem Azhar – Chief, The Exponential Network Ross Bailey – Founder & CEO, AppearHere Tina Baker – Partner, JAG Shaw Baker Anna Bance – Co-founder, Girl Meets Dress Lawrence Barclay – Principal, DN Capital Eric Benz – Chief Community Officer, Credits Romain Bertrand – UK Country Manager, eHarmony Ophelia Brown – General Partner, LocalGlobe Simon Campbell – CEO, The Sandpit Jas Chana – Technology Entrepreneur, Youth Health Parliament Vincent Dignan – Founder, Magnific Stéphanie Duchenois – President, Paris Angels Nuno Folhadela – CEO, Bica Studios Isabel Fox – Head of Venture, White Cloud Capital Kirstin Hancock – Head of Sales & Marketing, Blue Maestro Melissa Jun Rowley – Founder, Toolbox.org Bethany Koby – Founder, Technology Will Save Us Jonathan Luff – Co-founder & Partner, Epsilon Ap Jonathan Macdonald – Founder, Thought Expansion Network Lama Mansour – Co-founder, Bold Gadgets Dave Matthews – Founder & CEO, NewAer Liberty Mawhood – COO, L Marks Simon Montford – Founder, WEB3IOT Fergal Mullen – Partner, Highland Europe Madhumita Murgia – Head of Technology, Telegraph Media Group Evan Nisselson – Partner, LDV Capital Donna North – Co-founder, Dressipi Mark Roden – Founder, Ding Michael Ronen – Co-founder, Splash Evan Rudowski – Managing Partner, Atlantic Leap Anita Schjøll Brede – CEO & Co-founder, Iris AI Calogero Scibetta – Operations and Business Development Manager, Everledger Ken Segall – Author & Speaker, former Creative Director at Apple Emma Sinclair – UNICEF Adviser Patrycja Slawuta – Chief MindHacker, Self Hackathon Alessandra Sollberger – Co-founder & CEO, Evermore Jewell Strong Sparks – Global Head of Innovation Scouting and Inclusion, Metro Group Business Innovation Mark Tluszcz – Co-founder & CEO, Mangrove Capital Dimo Trifonov – Founder, 3nder Sarah Turner – Co-founder & Angel Investor, Angel Academe TICKETS: CONFERENCE & AWARDS CONFERENCE & AWARDS Tickets to this include all day access to the conference on June 14th in addition to the awards dinner and ceremony and after party in the evening. ‘AWARDS ONLY’ These include the pre-dinner drinks reception, seated dinner, awards ceremony and the after party – all held at Old Billingsgate on 14 June. There are also options to take a half table (5 guests), or a full table for 10 or 12 guests. ‘AWARDS ONLY’ PATHFOUNDERS Applications are now open for PathFounders – PathFounders is an invitation-only event for start-ups in fund-raising mode. This is for the future ‘moonshot entrepreneurs’ networking with their future investors and partners. On the days either side of The Europas Awards, we will bring together 100 of Europe’s hottest early-stage Founders, together with Europe’s best VCs and Angel Investors in a relaxed environment, with amazing hospitality. You can apply for an invite here. PATHFOUNDERS For full event details including the list of speakers for The Europas Conference & Awards, please click here. please click here SPONSORS:Sponsors include Level39, TechHub, Ticketbase, Twitter, Metro Group Business Innovation, Raine Advisors, TechCrunch, Unicef, 33Seconds, All Response Media, Beringea, Forward Partners, iHorizon, Index Ventures, JAG Shaw Baker, Kemp Little, Multiple, Nexmo, Orrick, MMC Ventures, Smith & Williamson, and Fieldhouse Associates. More details can be found here. Remaining sponsorship options are now strictly limited and we will be closing these at the end of the week, please contact petra@twistedtree.co.uk now. Here’s a selected list of companies signed-up and attending The Europas Conference and Awards: Mobile Marketer Ltd Baby2Body ReaQta Skimlinks Bristows LLP HAL24K Wearisma Silicon Valley Bank SVB Scamalytics Ltd Maitland PwC IDA Ireland Huckletree Angel Academe Techstars Fiedler Capital Marathon Artists IDA Ireland Skimlinks Angel Academe Techstars Silicon Valley Bank Polis, London School of Economics ReaQta Bristows BT plc. Google Clustree Mr Patch PublishDrive Findify Geam Power of You Blippar Halle Freyssinet / 1000 Skills Matter Spring Partners D.Labs d.o.o. LMarks mesh:ine GmbH eOffice Iris Capital UCL Fabric Snupps Inc. Snupps Inc. Modafirma Teloval Nauta Capital Gorilla Theory Labs Facebook Deutsche Telekom AG VTB Capital plc spintop ventures Your.MD Atomico Crowdcube Ltd Wiggin LLP App Store SapientNitro XING AG Highland Europe IBA IT UK ltd Vestel Ventures Tech North Server Density Edition Digital Ltd Interchange Pinipa Fitwell Dynamo Communications Ltd Cogniance Eden Ventures Authentiq Ultrahaptics Orrick DN Capital Women Who Code Curve Cogniance MMC Ventures Nexmo Made.com Vortexa Dimoso SyndicateRoom Digital Shadows tibit PwC Seedups Scamalytics Ltd LuxDeco.com You Too Me Now Vimpelcom ChartMogul Tagsonomy SL Excession Technologies Ltd Funeralbooker ChatSim Telectic Knowledge Plaza Beringea 33seconds Kemp Little Forward Partners ihorizon Smith & Williamson Unicef UK KPMG Vchain Tech Finnish Business Angels Network The Exponential View JAG Shaw Baker Girl Meets Dress Qualcomm Credits eHarmony BGF Ventures Wevolve Machinalis The Social Project 500 Startups Atlantic Leap EQT Ventures Silicon Valley Bank Level39 Sky Futures Eventbrite Sky Futures ChatSim Portugal Capital Ventures SA Portugal Capital Ventures SA Dancrs SyndicateRoom British Consul General KPMG Vchain Tech Finnish Business Angels Network The Exponential Network AppearHere JAG Shaw Baker Qualcomm Ventures GIrl Meets Dress DN Capital Credits eHarmony BGF Ventures Forward Partners LocalGlobe Passion Capital Blippar The Sandpit Balderton Badoo Business Insider Accel Partners Magnific Spring Partners Paris Angels White Cloud Capital Blue Maestro Eventbrite Eight Roads White Star Capital MOVE Guides White Star Capital Transferwise EVRYTHNG Toolbox.org LocalGlobe Technology Will Save Us Epsilon Ap Thought Expansion Network Bold Gadgets Onefinestay L Marks 500 Startups WEB3IOT Highland Europe Telegraph Media Group LDV Capital Dressipi Ding Splash Atlantic Leap Iris AI Service Everledger Twitter UNICEF Adviser Self Hackathon Evermore Metro Group Business Innovation Entrepreneur First Connect Partners Clue Mangrove Capital 3nder Angel Academe Techhub Tech.eu Beatie Wolfe Vinaya Timelooper 500 Startups Wyless Shryne Ltd. DN Capital Bazillion Beings Baby2Body ShopGo Authentiq Dancrs Tamoco Limited MOVE Guides Google King & Spalding Masabi MMC Ventures IQ Capital Partners LLP 33Seconds Beringea Beringea Live Better With Drover Space Ape Games ClickMechanic Patch Juggle Jobs Dawn Capital S&P Capital Smith & Williamson All Response Media Morrison & Foerster BluSpecs Peterhouse Corporate Finance Uvoz	DYNAMOTECH	Tech Crunch	02/02/2020 03:44:21	https://techcrunch.com/2016/06/02/ken-segall-dave-mcclure-julia-hartz-at-the-europas-voting-ends-today/
Drone delivery startup Manna boosts seed funding ahead of launch in Ireland		December 18, 2019	Listening to the radio (yes, it still exists) the other day I realized that the “futurist” that was being interviewed was speculating that drones would “one day be delivering food, but not any time soon.” Well, so much for that prediction. Because coming to an Irish household early next year will be drones delivering exactly that. For Manna, a B2B drone delivery “as-a-service” company, today announced an additional funding round of $3 million, led by Dynamo VC, a logistics-focused fund. The move brings Manna’s total seed funding to $5.2 million. Manna Manna pitches itself as an “aviation-grade” drone delivery company, and plans to roll out a fully autonomous drone delivery platform beginning in early 2020, first in Europe and then in the U.S. Manna’s drone itself is different. It is far more “modular” than other drones you might have seen, and therefore lends itself to logistics, like deliveries. It also uses custom-designed aerospace-grade drones built in  Europe and the U.S. The drones are designed for “all weathers” and do not fly above 500 feet, taking them out of the airspace of planes. The initial food deliveries in Ireland will be in rural areas, eventually reaching the suburbs of towns and cities. The first services offered will be to online meal ordering platforms, restaurant chains and “dark kitchens” with an incredible three-minute delivery promise. Obviously this would be far cheaper and faster than road-based deliveries, especially in rural areas. It’s also teamed up with Flipdish, the company that operates an online delivery platform used by restaurants and takeaways in Ireland. teamed up with Flipdish The Manna drone fleet will, they say, be operated directly from the restaurant or dark kitchen premises and will be accessible via API to food tech providers and online food platforms alike in a channel-agnostic manner. That means you end up with one drone fleet serving all and any of the providers, based on demand. Founder and serial entrepreneur Bobby Healy previously built and sold Eland Technologies to SITA.AERO in 2003, and more recently built CarTrawler, a B2B mobility marketplace for the airline industry, where he is still on the board after several private equity LBOs. Healy says: “We are on the cusp of the fifth industrial revolution — powered by drones — and our intention with Manna is to make drone delivery as pervasive as running water — to literally transform marketplaces, economies and communities all over the world in a way that not just reduces our carbon footprint, but saves lives and creates jobs while doing so.” Jon Bradford,  who led the investment for Dynamo Ventures, said: “It’s hard to find a rockstar team as ambitious and as capable as the Manna team, and in a domain that is as massive as it is difficult. In Bobby and his incredible team, we see a path to capture a real beachhead in this new emerging market that is truly unprecedented, and we look forward to helping accelerate their vision in the U.S. in 2020.” Jon Bradford,	DYNAMOTECH	Tech Crunch	02/02/2020 03:44:34	https://techcrunch.com/2019/12/18/drone-delivery-startup-manna-boosts-seed-funding-ahead-of-launch-in-ireland/
As the new year beckons European investors start moving into new roles		November 30, 2019	As the Holiday Season approaches, new jobs for players in the tech ecosystem beckon. And this is no less true for investors. Two notable moves have recently happened that are worthy of note in the European scene. The first is that GR Capital, a pan-European VC, is opening an office in London and has lured Jason Ball, who, earlier this year, left Qualcomm Ventures where had been European Managing Director for over a decade. Ball spent ten years as a mentor at Seedcamp and individually invested in more than ten companies. He was understood to be looking for new challenges, either building a new fund or joining another – so now we have our answer as to what he decided. GR Capital Jason Ball Founded in 2016 by Roma Ivaniuk in Ukraine, GR Capital specializes in late-stage VC investments. It has over $70M under management and has invested in Lime, Azimo, WeFox, McMakler, Glovo and Meero among others. Although the fund is  based out of Kyiv, Ukraine, it only makes Western European and US investments, and with a London office and the extremely well-networked Ball under its belt, we should be hearing more from them on the wider European scene in future. Ivaniuk said in a statement that the move “means we can now drive our pan-European business activities from the continent’s most important VC hub, London.” Ball said “We see a huge opportunity here to connect the dots between West and East. The London ecosystem is an exciting offering for investors in Eastern Europe, which in turn presents unique R&D and growth opportunities for portfolio companies.” Meanwhile, Jon Bradford was most recently a partner of Motive Partners and a UK investment pioneer — having founded the Springboard Accelerator that merged with Techstars to become Techstars  London, as well as helping to co-found F6S and Tech.eu. But he is also on the move, now joining Dynamo Ventures as its newest partner. Jon Bradford Motive Partners Techstars Dynamo Ventures Bradford will be joining Dynamo on a full-time basis having previously been an advisor who helped launch the debut fund. He has invested in over 100 startups over the last decade including Apiary, Hassle, Tray.io, Flitto (that recently IPO’ed in Korea), Sendbird and Chainalysis. Dynamo is a US-EU based seed fund focused on B2B startups in supply chain and mobility. It has invested in 20 startups across the US and overseas, investing in including Sennder (Berlin), Skupos, Stord, Gatik and LEAF Logistics.	DYNAMOTECH	Tech Crunch	02/02/2020 03:44:45	https://techcrunch.com/2019/11/30/as-the-new-year-beckons-european-investors-start-moving-into-new-roles/
Now With 12 Million Users, Timehop Adds Twitter Vet Jason Goldman To Its Board		December 31, 2014	It’s been a very busy few months for Timehop. Timehop The app, which provides users with a personal “today in history” memo by surfacing their photos and social networking posts from this day one year ago or more, is closing out the year with more than 12 million registered users, half of whom, some 6 million, open the app every single day. That’s double the number of both registered and daily active users that Timehop had just five months ago, when we last checked in with the company in July. five months ago To help advise with the growth, the company has added Jason Goldman to its board of directors. Goldman, a longtime Timehop user who has been an informal advisor to the startup’s executive team for a year, has become known in tech circles as something of a quiet secret weapon for his 12+ years of work alongside the more widely-known Evan Williams and Biz Stone as an executive and board member at Blogger, Google, Twitter, and Medium. Goldman’s experience with such products will likely come in handy as Timehop navigates rapid growth in its user base. Jason Goldman Jason Goldman quiet secret weapon Jason Goldman Taking off with the mainstream In an interview earlier this month, I told Timehop’s CEO Jonathan Wegener that anecdotally, I’ve started to notice a surge in Timehop posts on Facebook from family members and old school friends — people well beyond the Silicon Valley and startup scene. According to him, Timehop’s growth spurt indeed comes from the app hitting an “inflection point” of wider appeal. “People who are super early adopters have been on Facebook since 2004 and Twitter since 2006. More mainstream people were a few years behind. Their experience on Timehop was not going to be really good until now,” Wegener said. Timehop began in February 2011 at a Foursquare hackathon as an app called “4SquareAnd7YearsAgo.” It caught on right away with some prominent social web early adopters, but Wegener says that at the time, 60 to 70 percent of users who tried out the app didn’t have enough of a history for it to work correctly. “4SquareAnd7YearsAgo.” “Three years later, everything’s just ripening,” he said. “When we started, remember, Instagram had barely even launched yet. We’re just now getting to the point where people have years and years of digital histories. That’s always been our bet: Your digital history is growing exponentially.” A unique engineering challenge But all that exponential growth needs the support of especially solid infrastructure. Timehop’s staff of 18 has been focused in recent months on reinforcing its architecture to handle the growth and keep its latency down. The company has moved off of Heroku and onto Amazon’s Dynamo DB, and has rewritten its codebase in the Go programming language. Those changes have been key, because Timehop has unique technical challenges compared to many other social-oriented apps, Wegener said. “When someone signs up for an app like Facebook, they typically have no storage needs and no data, and their requirements grow with time. On day one when someone signs up with Timehop, we have a small window of about 10 seconds to grab everything off of their social networks and shoulder all of that content.” The road ahead Looking ahead, Wegener says that Timehop has begun to think about how it will make money — a company like Coca-Cola could pay for a feature on the anniversary of its being founded, for instance — but for now, he says that revenue generation is likely a number of months away. In the near-term, Timehop is hoping to build itself into a platform where users can write their digital histories across all types of services: Think flight histories, Uber rides, Runkeeper runs, and beyond. “The social networks are the low-hanging fruit for us. Your digital history is much wider than just the things that you post to Facebook and the photos on your camera.”	DYNAMOTECH	Tech Crunch	02/02/2020 03:44:58	https://techcrunch.com/2014/12/31/now-with-12-million-users-timehop-adds-twitter-vet-jason-goldman-to-its-board/
Self-driving delivery van startup Gatik AI comes out of stealth with Walmart partnership		June 6, 2019	Gatik AI,  an autonomous vehicle startup that came out of stealth Thursday with $4.5 million in funding and Walmart  as a customer, is aiming for the sweet middle spot in the world of logistics. Gatik AI, Walmart The company, which operates out of Palo Alto and Toronto, isn’t deploying autonomous delivery bots built for sidewalks, nor is it aiming for self-driving trucks, or even robotaxis to shuttle around people. Instead, the founders of Gatik AI are developing a business that will do short hauls of goods between businesses using autonomous light-commercial trucks and vans. The Ford transit vehicles outfitted with Gatik’s self-driving system will drive up to 200 miles a day and stay within a city environment, co-founder and CEO Gautam Narang told TechCrunch. He believes the company can close the gap in the market through a variety of use cases, including partnering with third-party logistics giants like Amazon,  FedEx  or even the U.S. Postal Service, auto part distributors, consumer goods, food and beverage distributors as well as medical and pharmaceutical companies. Amazon, FedEx The strategy has attracted a number of investors and at least one major partner: Walmart. Gatik AI has raised $4.5 million in a seed round led by former CEO and executive chairman of Google  Eric Schmidt’s Innovation Endeavors. Other investors include AngelPad, Dynamo Fund, Fontinalis Partners, Trucks Venture Capital and angel Lior Ron, who heads Uber Freight. Google Innovation Endeavors Dror Berman, a founding partner at Innovation Endeavors, is now a Gatik board member. “There is a huge gap between autonomous Class 8 big rig trucks, which can only operate on highways, and smaller automated vehicles such as sidewalk robots and Nuro  vehicles, which are restricted by operation speed, capacity, distance, and the curb. Gatik fills the critical ‘middle mile’ part of logistics, which is only becoming more valuable as a layer in the $800 billion logistics ecosystem,” said Reilly Brennan, founding general partner at Trucks Venture Capital. Nuro The capital will allow Gatik — the name means progressive or speed in Sanskrit —  to expand its team and launch additional commercial services this year. Narang co-founded the company with his brother Arjun Narang, who is CTO, and chief engineer Apeksha Kumavat. The company has been testing its autonomous vehicle technology on public roads in California for about 18 months. The trio, which previously founded rehabilitation robotics tech startup Maverick Robotics, contends that their autonomous vehicle technology and approach, if scaled, can reduce the cost of last-mile delivery for businesses by 50% and improve safety. Walmart could be one such customer. Gatik didn’t provide many details about the deal with Walmart, only to say that it’s launching a service with Walmart in the coming weeks. The U.S. retail giant has already shown it has a keen interest in autonomous vehicle technology. Last year, Walmart and self-driving vehicle company Waymo  announced a partnership in Arizona. Under the test program, members of Waymo’s early rider program were offered grocery savings when they shop from Walmart.com. The riders will be able to take a Waymo car to their nearby Walmart store for grocery pickup when the order is ready. Waymo early rider program Walmart also signed a deal in January with startup Udelv to test the use of autonomous vans to deliver online grocery orders to customers. Under the agreement, Udelv will provide its second-generation autonomous delivery van, called the Newton, to Walmart to deliver groceries in Surprise, Ariz. deliver online grocery orders Gautam Narang says third-party logistics companies are also a particularly good opportunity. “There’s a huge push, where these companies are trying to build micro-fulfillment centers close to the customer,” Narang said. “So moving goods from a warehouse to these micro centers is one of the use cases that we’re targeting. This is perfect for scaling and commercialization of autonomous technology.”	DYNAMOTECH	Tech Crunch	02/02/2020 03:45:12	https://techcrunch.com/2019/06/06/self-driving-delivery-van-startup-gatik-ai-comes-out-of-stealth-with-walmart-partnership/
Hydrobee Lets You Charge A Battery From A Fast-Flowing River To Juice Up USB Devices Off-Grid		November 22, 2013	We’ve seen fire harnessed to power a phone charger for the great outdoors, with the nifty FlameStower, now meet Hydrobee: another Kickstarter project aiming to provide an off-grid alternative for charging a battery you can then use to juice your phone. But, as its name suggests, Hydrobee is all about water. FlameStower Kickstarter There’s two parts to Hydrobee. When wearing its ‘Stream Body’, the gizmo can be placed in a river or dragged behind a boat — so long as the water is flowing faster than 1.8m/s (or 4mph+) — and two to four hours later its battery will be fully charged. A smaller inner unit can also be attached directly to a flowing faucet to charge — so could be used as a back-up power generator for your phone during a power outage (so long as your taps don’t require electricity to pump the water to them). Once Hydrobee’s battery is juiced, you can then plug in a USB device to charge it — a secondary charging process that presumably takes several more hours. Hydrobee reminds me of a CDT project I worked on in school, where we stuck a dynamo on a paddle wheel-bearing rig designed to float in a river and stuck a micro bulb on top that we hoped would be powered by it… Long story short it didn’t work on demo day, but that’s technology demos for you. Hydrobee has clearly perfected the hydroelectric tech better than a bunch of schoolkids managed to. The prototype consists of a tiny hydropowered turbine sited in a can with rechargeable batteries and waterproofed electronics, and a USB 2.0 port — so you can juice up your phone or other USB-powered device. The internal batteries are 6 x 1.2V AA NiMH rechargeable cells of 2,500 mAh capacity, yielding a total of 15,000 mAh. It is still a prototype for now. And Hydrobee’s U.S.-based creator has put a call out for Kickstarter users to give him feedback on the sorts of things they’d like to be able to use the device for to help shape the final product. The campaign is looking to raise $48,000 in crowdfunding, with 17 days left to run. If it hits its funding target, Hydrobees will be shipped to backers next March. The Hydrobee turbine generator, which can be used to generate a charge from water from a running faucet or hose, is being offered to early Kickstarter backers for $24. Or it’s $78 for all the kit, including the floating Stream Body.	DYNAMOTECH	Tech Crunch	02/02/2020 03:45:23	https://techcrunch.com/2013/11/22/hydrobee/
Peter Thiel Tweets		September 8, 2014	Peter Thiel could have tweeted about his early investment in Facebook, his loathe for Uber or the future of anti-aging. Instead, the Libertarian billionaire carefully chose the stage at Disrupt SF to send out his first ever tweet about his new book, “Zero to One: Notes on Startups, or How to Build the Future.” Thiel’s venture, Founders Fund, famously displays the tagline, “We wanted flying cars, instead we got 140 characters.” But according to the co-founder of PayPal, that wasn’t meant as a personal dig on Twitter’s business. “We never said Twitter isn’t innovative,” said Thiel. He then sent out his first tweet on stage this afternoon just to show he meant that. “Twitter is a fantastic communications tool but it’s not enough to take our world to the next level,” added Thiel. Tsotsis then shot Thiel a quizzical look. “You still think it’s not relevant with Ferguson and Arab Spring?,” she asked. “Well it’s not built on bits and atoms,” explained Thiel. You may have to read the book to get what he means there. It may seem kinda late to join in the twittersphere, but Thiel is an unconventional guy. He’s invested in some of the biggest companies in Silicon Valley in the past decade from Facebook to Stripe and says Silicon Valley will be the center of the U.S. economy for the next decade or two to come. The key to the companies that will make it, according to Thiel, is about timing. The early 2000’s were a good time to start companies in Silicon Valley. The timing was right in 1999-2000 to make it all happen. [PayPal] would not have been possible in 2005. It probably would not be possible in 2014,” said Thiel. Tsotsis drew quite a bit of laughter from the crowd when she asked Thiel if he recognized the similarities between himself and the Peter Gregory character on HBO’s Silicon Valley. Thiel was a bit bashful and said he was not equipped to answer that but that he was flattered. “Silicon Valley is the place where people are going to think of tech culture,” said Thiel, referring to the show similarities. “In the aftermath of the 2008 crisis, Silicon Valley became the place to go. I don’t want to hype it up too much but it’s the place to come in the next 10-20 years,” said Thiel. However, this Silicon Valley dynamo was almost never on the radar. Thiel revealed onstage that he had a set track from the 8th grade to become a Supreme Court judge one day. He planned to go to Stanford, then law school and then the Supreme Court. However, Thiel ended up not getting the clerkship he wanted and thus not fulfilling his super-tracked plans. “We often look back and wonder whether those really are the most terrible things,” said Thiel.	DYNAMOTECH	Tech Crunch	02/02/2020 03:45:34	https://techcrunch.com/2014/09/08/peter-thiel-tweets/
Happy Friday: 100 More Tickets Released for July 30 Summer Party		July 16, 2010	UPDATE: Batch if tickets is sold out. Check back again next week. We’re releasing another 100 tickets now to our July 30 summer party at August Capital.  Act fast if you want one, these things sell out in less than an hour. 100 tickets If you don’t get a ticket, don’t email me begging for one.  Come to our Social Currency Crunchup earlier that day instead.  A ticket to the CrunchUp gives you entry to the party afterwards. Social Currency Crunchup We’ve got a great lineup of startups and investors ready to explore the rapidly growing realms of social commerce, the local Web, Geo, and game mechanics. @earlybird) full agenda here Summer Party Details: July 30, 2010 5:30 – 10:00 pm 2480 Sand Hill Road, Menlo Park CAGet Summer Party Tickets Now @ Eventbrite: $30. Tickets are non-refundable and non-transferrable, based on availability. Get Summer Party Tickets Now And while the summer party is always a lot of fun, we encourage you to spend the whole day with TechCrunch and join our Social Currency CrunchUp at Stanford’s amazing Arrillaga Alumni Center.  We have an amazing line up and lots of fun surprises still to be announced. Trust us. And you get expedited fast-pass entry into the summer party at August Capital. About the Social Currency CrunchUp: July 30, 2010 9 am – 4:00 pm Arrillaga Alumni Center, Stanford University 326 Galvez Street, Palo Alto, CA 94305Get CrunchUp-Party Combo Tickets Now @ Eventbrite: $295 INCLUDES admission for one (1) to the August Capital party and expedited fast-pass door entry. You DO NOT need to purchase a separate August Capital Party ticket if you purchase a CrunchUp ticket. Tickets are non-transferrable, based on availability. Capacity limited to 500 attendees. All details here. Get CrunchUp-Party Combo Tickets Now here Please contact Heather Harde or Jeanne Logozzo for sponsorship opportunities and help support our summer tech fest. Heather Harde Jeanne Logozzo Contact Laura Boychenko to request a press pass. Laura Boychenko	DYNAMOTECH	Tech Crunch	02/02/2020 03:45:48	https://techcrunch.com/2010/07/16/100-tickets-summer-party/
Upstarts emerge to chase Tesla's lead in electric vehicles		May 23, 2018	A slew of well-funded new entrants backed by massive amounts of capital are chasing Tesla’s lead in an effort to power the next generation of the electric vehicle industry. Electric vehicle startups have raised more than $2 billion in the U.S. over the first months of 2018 alone, a huge increase over the $650 million raised in 2017, according to data from PitchBook. And the investment trends point to more competition for Tesla from established car companies and upstart manufacturers alike in the next few years. PitchBook All of this activity is thanks to the size of the industry that’s in play. The market for electric passenger vehicles is expected to reach $356.5 billion by 2023 led by $205.9 billion in sales coming from the Asia-Pacific region, according to predictions from the market intelligence firm, Absolute Reports. Absolute Reports Given those numbers, it’s no wonder that investments into electric vehicle companies and the enabling technologies for them keep climbing — and most of the cash commitments are being made in newly formed companies. PitchBook data indicates that early-stage deals are on the rise, with 15 investments into startup electric vehicle companies in 2017. (It’s important to note that PitchBook data, and the work of other market intelligence firms, is somewhat fuzzy and imprecise.) In 2018, first investments accounted for the bulk of the $2 billion raised. Many of these electric vehicle challengers emerged from the wreckage of other companies that had sought the pole position in the race for auto-industry dominance. Several new companies have emerged from the collapse of Faraday Future  and Fisker Automotive, even as both companies found themselves reborn with new leases on life thanks to redoubled capital commitments from global billionaires, Chinese companies awash in money and traditional venture firms angling for a shot at Tesla’s  market dominance. Faraday Future Tesla’s Tesla’s terrible, horrible, no good, very bad year (to date) While the size of the electric vehicle market is one factor motivating the competition, another is the series of miscues from Tesla, the independent electric vehicle market leader, which has competitors wondering if the wheels are coming off Elon Musk’s big bet. By any measure, Tesla has had a very bad year. Consumer Reports just issued a report saying it could not recommend the company’s latest offering, the Model 3. And production for that new car, the company’s first effort to manufacture a low-cost electric vehicle, has caused innumerable problems for Musk and his staff. saying it could not recommend the company’s latest offering Cost overruns have outlets like Bloomberg speculating that Tesla wouldn’t have enough cash to make it through the calendar year. speculating that Tesla wouldn’t have enough cash The company spends exorbitant amounts of money compared to its established automaker competitors. The company’s staff has ballooned from fewer than 1,000 employees in 2010 to nearly 40,000 now, according to Bloomberg, and competitors like GM and Ford bring in 2.5 times as much revenue for each employee compared with Tesla. Production problems are also compounded by an aggressive schedule for new vehicles, which has the Tesla hype machine calling for a new Roadster, a crossover car and an electric semi truck all supposedly coming to market in the next few years. Stalled production and cost overruns aren’t Tesla’s only concerns. The NTSB is investigating the company’s liability in another deadly crash involving its autonomous systems and top executives have been bolting for the exits in what Musk categorized as a “flattening” of his company’s management structure. top executives have been bolting for the exits “flattening” of his company’s management structure No wonder executives at new startups just now entering the market may be thinking that Musk and Tesla may no longer be in the drivers’ seat. Karma Revero (PRNewsFoto/Karma Automotive) Karma Revero (PRNewsFoto/Karma Automotive) U.S. startups take their marks It’s against this backdrop that competitors like Evelozcity and Independent Electric Vehicles, two startups born from the wreckage of Faraday Future (the once-relevant Tesla competitor) have come to market to potentially challenge Tesla’s supremacy. While Independent Electric Vehicles has stayed under the radar — with not much known about the company other than Jalopnik’s report of Chinese backers and an executive team headed in part by Steve Osario, Faraday’s former head of design operations and advanced model development — Evelozcity has made a splash. Evelozcity Independent Electric Vehicles Jalopnik’s report From its base in Los Angeles, Evelozcity boasts a $1 billion commitment from undisclosed international backers and a seasoned executive team (culled primarily from Faraday Future) that includes the former chief financial officer of BMW, Stefan Krause; Richard Kim, who was instrumental in the development of BMW’s i3 and i8; and Karl Thomas-Neumann, who joined the company from GM’s European division. Two other companies in the Los Angeles area, the Irvine, Calif.-based Karma Automotive and a newly reborn Fisker Inc. also have cars they’re putting into the market — along with a rebooted Faraday Future, which reportedly received a billion-dollar investment from a white knight before it was forced into insolvency. Karma Automotive Fisker Inc. What most of these would-be Tesla competitors have in common is a determination not to eschew the principles of auto manufacturing in favor of a completely new approach. “There will be a lot of room to grow for many,” said one executive at a new early-stage electric vehicle company. “If I look at the combustion engine industry… when it started you had thousands of companies competing for a much smaller market.” Global competition and China’s potential to race ahead If new entrants in the U.S. aren’t worrying enough for Tesla, then the deluge of electric vehicle startups coming from China should. An article in The South China Morning Post listed 10 startups coming from the world’s new economic powerhouse with a combination of capital and manufacturing muscle that could spell real trouble for other independent electric vehicle and autonomous driving-focused automakers. An article in The South China Morning Post “Tesla paved the way, now we’re taking this a step further,” Padmasree Warrior, the head of the U.S. arm of Shanghai-based electric vehicle startup, NIO, told The Wall Street Journal. “We have a mission to transform mobility.” Shanghai-based electric vehicle startup, NIO told The Wall Street Journal That Chinese investors should push so aggressively into the market isn’t surprising (remember that the Asia-Pacific region will account for $205.9 billion in sales), and global numbers show that investors are already anticipating that rising wave of demand. There are at least 34 new, early-stage startups that were launched in 2017 alone to tackle the electric vehicle ecosystem. Of the companies mentioned by The SCMP, six are squarely focused on electrification. They include Byton, a company backed by one of China’s best (and most government-connected) funds, Legend Capital;  along with the auto manufacturer Harmony Auto and League Automotive Technologies. Byton expects to begin production in 2019 and has a seasoned executive team from some of the world’s best manufacturers. Legend Capital; Nio’s backers aren’t too shabby either, given that they include Chinese tech giants, Baidu, Tencent Holdings and Xiaomi. Financial investors include the global venture capital powerhouse Sequoia Capital and domestic dynamo Hillhouse Capital. And the trinity of Tencent, Baidu and Sequoia are also backing another electric vehicle competitor in WM Motor, another Shanghai-based Tesla challenger that has automaker Zhejiang Geely Holding as another pillar in its foundation. Arrayed against those three new entrants are four other companies like Xiaopeng Motors (backed by two tech titans — Alibaba and Foxconn — and four sterling investors in IDG Capital, Yunfeng Capital, CICC and Morning Ventures); Singulator Motor, which has backing from the Tongling government; and CHJ Automotive, a company backed by two players in the automotive industry, Zhejiang Leo Group and Changzhou Wunan New Energy Car. Anyone who wonders what effect a flood of Chinese manufacturers can have on a market would do well to look at the role Chinese companies played in significantly driving down the cost of solar panels and wind turbines — and the ways those suppliers now control global renewable energy markets. The Byton connected car is seen during its launch at CES 2018 in Las Vegas on January 7, 2018.  MANDEL NGAN/AFP/Getty Images The Byton connected car is seen during its launch at CES 2018 in Las Vegas on January 7, 2018.  MANDEL NGAN/AFP/Getty Images Big Auto’s big bet Even as these companies raise billions in commitments from investors to build the next generation of electric vehicles, the big automakers that first developed the technology (and then subsequently shelved it) are placing their own massive bets on electrification. are placing their own massive bets on electrification As Reuters reported at the beginning of the year, big auto is committing at least $90 billion to electrify at least some of their most popular vehicles over the coming years. The big car companies are motivated in part by the competition they see coming from Tesla and startups, but more importantly from government regulations in China, Europe and potentially the U.S. “There are three contenders for this huge market opportunity,” said one executive at an upstart electric vehicle company, speaking on background. “The first is the OEMs. But they had to learn from Tesla how to do it.” Originally, these companies were skeptical about market adoption, but now, with China leading the charge toward electrification through regulation they have no choice. “The government will push it,” this executive said. “But the government will then have to deal with the principle of increased margins and higher costs for consumers.” For this executive, in these still-early days of mass electrification the two companies that are most committed are GM and Volkswagen. Beyond big auto, this executive also said that big tech — namely Alphabet, the parent company of Google and the autonomous driving company, Waymo, and Apple — represent the biggest competitive threat. The leader of the pack? Despite all of the competitors shifting into overdrive, Musk’s Tesla still remains the company to beat — even with its many missteps. The fact remains that Musk is the first person to build a new, independent automaker in the last century. That’s no small feat, but it accomplished in a vastly different competitive environment. It’s easy to win a race when there are only two or three other cars to beat. It remains to be seen how well Tesla can do when it faces a full field.	DYNAMOTECH	Tech Crunch	02/02/2020 03:46:08	https://techcrunch.com/2018/05/23/upstarts-emerge-to-chase-teslas-lead-in-electric-vehicles/
YC-Backed viaCycle Is A Zipcar For Bikes, Coming To San Francisco Soon		August 15, 2012	ViaCycle, a new Y Combinator-backed startup, wants to be to bike sharing what Zipcar has become for cars. While there are many cities around the world where bike sharing is a fact of daily life, only a few cities in the U.S. currently offer similar programs and the ones that exist are often expensive to operate. The viaCycle team, which has been working on its platform for three years, uses a very different approach from most of its competitors. Unlike other systems, viaCycle doesn’t need special docking stations for its bikes, for example. The team has developed its own hardware that is integrated into the bikes to lock and unlock them through a phone call, text or via the company’s mobile app. This means viaCycle bikes can be locked to standard bike racks anywhere and the cost of getting started is significantly lower than with similar systems. ViaCycle Zipcar The system is currently being tested with 40 bikes on Georgia Tech’s campus in Atlanta and it’s also coming to George Mason University in the fall. ViaCycle will also launch its first pilot program in San Francisco in the next few weeks, starting with one location outside of the HUB co-working space in SOMA. 40 bikes on Georgia Tech’s campus in Atlanta George Mason University HUB co-working space Here is how this system works for users: after you become a registered customer, you just use the viaCycle app or send a text with the bike’s number and your PIN code to unlock the bike. Most of the technology that makes this system works sits on the back of the bike. A small battery pack holds the locking mechanism (which uses a sturdy chain lock) and a GPS system to track the bikes. As the company’s co-founder and CEO Kyle Azevedo told me earlier this week, the pack can be powered via small solar cells or a dynamo. All of the back-end systems are hosted on viaCycles servers, which can also provide detailed analytics data back to the companies and municipalities that decide to offer viaCycles services. All of this isn’t free, of course. The San Francisco pilot project, for example, will probably cost users about $5 for a day pass and memberships will cost about $20/month or $80/year. What makes viaCycle so interesting, however, is that it is really a platform and mostly leaves the day-to-day business activities to others. On the Georgia Tech campus, for example, students can get the bikes for up to 30 minutes for free. After that, users pay standard usage fees. With a $5.95/month premium subscription, however, users only start paying after they have used the bike for more than 2 hours. As Azevedo told me, companies, colleges and others who want to bring viaCycle to their campuses and cities typically pay about $20 per bike per month for the system. In addition, there is also an upfront cost of about $1,000 to $1,500 for every bike. While a city may decide to charge users to defray the cost, a large company with a big campus could decide to just offer the system to its users for free. This may sound expensive, but this system is far cheaper than its competitors. As Azevedo told me, “it’s practically a crime that cities are paying as much as they do for their [current] bike systems.” The viaCycle team, which currently consists for the four co-founders and their first (part-time) employee, met at Georgia Tech and has been working on the system (and especially on how to make the bikes talk to the server without using too much power) for a few years now. The company has won a number of accolades since. ViaCycle, for example, won the MIT Clean Energy Prize in the transportation category in 2010, received a $50,000 grant from Ford and won StartupRiot Atlanta 2012. The team is currently part of the Y Combinator Summer 2012 class and has started to think about how to adapt its technology to other markets outside of bike sharing, too.	DYNAMOTECH	Tech Crunch	02/02/2020 03:46:20	https://techcrunch.com/2012/08/15/yc-viacycle-bikesharing/
How Bykea is winning Pakistan's ride-hailing and delivery market		January 31, 2020	Increasingly, the streets of Karachi and Lahore are being flooded with men riding bikes and wearing green T-shirts, a writer friend recently told me. In a sense, these men represent the emergence of Pakistan’s tech startups. India now has more than 25,000 startups and raised a record $14.5 billion last year, according to government figures. But not all Asian countries are as large as India or have such a thriving startup ecosystem. Long overdue, things are beginning to change in bordering Pakistan. raised a record $14.5 billion last year Bykea, a three-year-old ride-hailing and delivery service, today has more than 500,000 bikes registered on its platform. It operates in some of Pakistan’s most populated cities, such as Karachi, Lahore and Islamabad, Muneeb Maayr, Bykea  founder and CEO, told TechCrunch. Bykea Bykea Maayr is one of the most recognized startup founders in Pakistan, and previously worked for Rocket Internet, helping the giant run fashion e-commerce platform Daraz in the country. While leading Daraz, he expanded the platform to cater to categories beyond fashion; Daraz was later sold to Alibaba. Maayr	Bongô up	Tech Crunch	02/02/2020 03:46:36	https://techcrunch.com/2020/01/31/how-bykea-is-winning-pakistans-ride-hailing-and-delivery-market/
Tint Gives Businesses An Easy Way To Bring Social Media Feeds To Their Websites, Apps And Facebook...		April 11, 2013	Last year, Tim Sae Koo, Nikhil Aitharaju, Eunice Noh and Ryo Chiba launched HypeMarks to give people a less hectic way to consume social media. The startup aggregated tweets, articles, links and more shared by influencers and celebrities on social media accounts and, by grouping those by topic, aimed to give people a snapshot of an industry through the eyes of the people who know it best. launched HypeMarks Although the USC grads were able to generate some interest and raise a small round of seed funding from Bill Gross and Idealab, the service never quite took off. Using the social media aggregation technology they’d developed for HypeMarks, they shifted their focus to take a B2B approach to social media aggregation. In December, they launched Tint — a simple, DIY platform that helps brands aggregate, curate and display social media feeds from multiple networks on their websites, in their mobile apps, Facebook pages and event displays. Tint In other words, Tint’s platform is designed to help brands create social hubs on top of their digital properties and, in turn, create a deeper level of engagement with their audiences. The idea is that, while there are a number of social media aggregators out there, the average consumer tends to gravitate towards one particular social network and, once there, tends to do their socializing and interacting on that network, rather than switching between them. Tint allows businesses and brands to connect their social network accounts with their websites, in part to help them promote their products and services through their social feeds, but also to provide their websites with more engaging content. Businesses can link their Twitter, YouTube, Pinterest, Instagram, Facebook and RSS feeds to their Tint accounts, whereupon the service auto-populates the page from those feeds, serving the social content in a river that is Pinterest-like in design. Or, perhaps the better analogy is Flipboard, as each piece of content is given a headline, an excerpt and a photo, served in a create-your-own social magazine sort of layout. Users can then personalize their pages by changing fonts, background colors and so on or change the headline, URL and image of each piece of content. Tint also offers a handful of starter templates (on of which is free) in case you want to get started quickly. After that’s done, you can embed the product on your site, tweaking the code to customize it for your site or page, whether it be WordPress, Tumblr, Weebly or some other. Tint also allows you to choose the dimensions you want the embedded stream to be and the number of cascading columns you want to appear, automatically serving up the embed code. Take that to your blog, page, drop it in, and bingo, bango, bongo, you have a social feed on your website that is automatically updated every time you tweet or post cat pictures to Facebook. Admittedly, Tint probably sounds a little bit like Rebelmouse, but Sae Koo tells us that there are a few differences: Namely, Tint enables you to display social media feeds from specific hashtags, YouTube channels and Pinterest boards to help keep your users on your website, app or event (and engaged). Plus, he says, Tint wants to be a platform tool and an aggregator, not a publishing CMS — and one that’s easy to use and takes 10 minutes to set up. The alternatives, he says, are generally expensive, custom solutions that take time to implement and integrate. While it may not sound earth-shattering, in the four months since launch, Tint has started to build some traction. Over 10,000 brands are actively using Tint on their sites, averaging 2.5 million monthly pageviews and has been doubling revenue and user growth month-over-month. Today, Tint’s clients include Enrique Iglesias, Toni Braxton, a number of NFL and NBA teams, Honda and more, and its 10,000 clients have averaged a 10 to 15 percent increase in traffic, 20 to 30 percent increase in time spent on their site and 12 to 18 percent decrease in bounce rate, the founders tell us. Next up, Tint will be looking to expand its partnerships with digital agencies, build out its templates and customization options and finish raising its seed round. Find Tint at home here. Tint at home here.	Bongô up	Tech Crunch	02/02/2020 03:46:47	https://techcrunch.com/2013/04/10/tint-gives-businesses-an-easy-way-to-bring-social-feeds-to-their-websites-apps-and-facebook-pages/
The Rise Of Silicon Savannah And Africa’s Tech Movement		July 23, 2015	"Jake BrightContributorJake Bright is a writer and author in New York City. He is co-author of The Next Africa.	More posts by this contributorTrump to halt immigration from Africa’s top tech hub, NigeriaKenyan logistics startup Sendy raises $20M round backed by ToyotaAubrey HrubyContributor 		Aubrey Hruby is an adviser to investors and companies doing business in Africa. She is a Visiting Fellow at the Africa Center at the Atlantic Council and the co-author of The Next Africa. Jake Bright The Next Africa Trump to halt immigration from Africa’s top tech hub, Nigeria Kenyan logistics startup Sendy raises $20M round backed by Toyota Africa Center at the Atlantic Council The Next Africa Tech will be on President Obama’s agenda as he hosts the Global Entrepreneurship Summit in Kenya, taking along internet pioneer Steve Case and Airbnb CEO Brian Chesky. Nascent as it may be, Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) does have a promising tech sector — a growing patchwork of entrepreneurs, startups, and innovation centers coalescing country to country. * Kenya is now a recognized IT hub. Facebook recently expanded on the continent. And Silicon Valley VC is funneling into ventures from South Africa to Nigeria. These pieces are coming together as Africa’s budding tech culture and ecosystem emerge. The Rise of Silicon Savannah Most discussions of the origins of Africa’s tech movement circle back to Kenya. From 2007 through 2010 a combination of circumstance, coincidence, and visionary individuals laid down four markers inspiring the country’s Silicon Savannah moniker: In 2007, Kenyan telecom company Safaricom launched its M-PESA mobile money service to a market lacking retail banking infrastructure yet abundant in mobile phone users. The product converted even the most basic cell phones into roaming bank accounts and money-transfer devices. Safaricom M-PESA Within two years M-PESA was winning international tech awards after gaining nearly six million customers and transferring billions annually. The mobile money service shaped the continent’s most recognized example of technological leapfrogging: launching ordinary Africans without bank accounts right over traditional brick-and-mortar finance into the digital economy. Shortly after M-PESA’s arrival, political events in Kenya would inspire creation of one of Africa’s first globally recognized apps, Ushahidi. In late 2007, four technologists — Erik Hersman (an American who grew up in Kenya), activist Ory Okolloh, IT blogger Juliana Rotich, and programmer David Kobia—linked up to see what could be done to quell sporadic violence as a results of an inconclusive presidential election. Ushahidi Notable as it has become, Silicon Savannah is but one corner of Africa’s tech movement. Over a three-day period the techies came up with the Ushahidi app (meaning “witness” in Swahili) to digitally, rapidly, and publicly track outbreaks of violence during Kenya’s election crisis. The Ushahidi software that evolved became a highly effective tool for digitally mapping demographic events. As Kenya shifted back to stability, requests came in from around the globe to adapt Ushahidi for other purposes. By the end of 2008, the app had become Ushahidi the international tech company, which now has multiple applications in more than 20 countries. Soon thereafter Erik Hersman would flesh out the ideas that spurred Africa’s innovation hub movement. He wrote in a blogpost to other techies, that what African tech needed was “permanent community spaces. Hubs…in major cities with a focus on young entrepreneurs. . . . Part open community workspace (co-working), part investor and VC hub and part idea incubator. The nexus point for technologists, investors, [and] tech companies.” These exchanges hatched the iHub innovation center on Nairobi’s now African IT–synonymous Ngong Road. Since 2010 152 companies have formed out of iHub. It has 15,000 members and on any day, numerous young Kenyans work in its labs and interact with global technologists such as Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer (a past speaker). iHub gave rise to Africa’s innovation center movement, inspiring the upsurge in tech hubs across the continent. iHub innovation Rounding off Silicon Savannah hallmarks M-PESA, iHub, and Ushahidi was the completion of the TEAMs undersea fiber optic cable, which arrived in Mombasa  in 2010, and significantly increased broadband in East Africa. TEAMs The project was largely the vision of Kenya’s then Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Information and Communications, Bitange Ndemo, who saw benefits in “developing Kenya’s Information Communication Technology (ICT) infrastructure toward the country becoming a regional ICT hub.”  An ICT master plan he shaped in 2006 would eventually became the template for the Kenyan government’s strong commitment to ICT policy. By 2013 Kenya formed its own fully staffed ICT Authority. Africa’s Emerging Tech Landscape Notable as it has become, Silicon Savannah is but one corner of Africa’s tech movement. Across SSA new Silicon Savannahs are in the making and the components of a budding SSA IT ecosystem are emerging. Tech Incubators iHub-like innovation centers are becoming a mainstay of the continent’s progressing ICT infrastructure. In 2015 Zambia’s Bongo Hive and the Boston-based Fab Foundation tracked 170 innovation spaces across SSA–organizations like Nigeria’s CCHub, Uganda’s Hivecolab, and Ghana’s Meltwater–where techies come together daily for a variety of training and programs. Bongo Hive CCHub Hivecolab Meltwater Africa’s tech hubs are taking on many different characteristics. Some are more communal, grant based and social venture focused, while others shift toward profit oriented, startup accelerators models. Whatever the focus, these IT spaces are becoming central connect points for ideas, entrepreneurs, investment, and innovation across the continent. Junior and Senior Techies Bolstering SSA’s IT hubs is the rise of a distinct African tech culture—a movement to embrace technology in multiple forms, particularly among youth. Many members of the continent’s innovation spaces are in their 20s or even younger. An established group of techies–most of most of whom studied in the U.S. and worked in American IT–is also emerging. These include iHub’s Erik Hersman and Juliana Rotich, Senegalese born, UK–based business-woman Mariéme Jamme, and AppsTech CEO Rebecca Enonchong. Nigeria has Konga’s Sim Shagaya and Hopstop founder Chinedou Echerou. In addition to running various IT ventures, these individuals are becoming global spokespeople for African tech and mentors to some of its youngest aspirants. AppsTech Konga Chinedou Echerou Investment and Startups Three channels of funding into Africa’s IT ecosystem provide indicators of its future. One on level grant donations are funneling into the continent’s innovation hubs, app competitions, and social venture focused startups. Sources include U.S. foundations (Omidyar network to iHub), aid agencies (USAID to mLabs), and African governments (Nigeria’s funding of iDEA Hub). iDEA Hub Global tech companies are also expanding operations into Africa. Facebook recently named its first Africa head and SSA office. SAP  announced it will invest $500 million through 2020 to introduce some of its newest technologies to the continent. And IBM opened its first Africa research center in Kenya–a $100 million facility creating an African version of its Watson supercomputer, dubbed Project Lucy. And finally, there’s a surge in VC funding and African startups. Our analysis indicates existence of nearly 3,500 new tech-related ventures in SSA. Countries such as Nigeria are in the midst startup booms. In Africa’s most populous nation and largest  economy hundreds of online portals are popping up to provide just about every commercial service and solve any business problem. There are ﬁrst-time dotcoms for fashion (Fashpa), digital payments (Paga), shipping (ACE – Africa Courier Express), employment (Jobberman), airline bookings, and digital movies and music (SOLO). Fashpa Paga ACE – Africa Courier Express Jobberman SOLO The value of VC investment fueling Africa’s startups is quickly moving from the millions to billions. Adding analysis to data provided by CrunchBase, we were able to conﬁrm more than $400 million in VC funding for African startups in 2014 and project at least $1 billion in VC investment in Africa’s tech startups for the period 2012–2018. [Chart 1]  Big takers are Nigeria’s e-commerce ventures Jumia and Konga, who are banking on scaling digital commerce to Africa’s most populous nation and beyond [Chart 2]. Four Things to Expect in African Tech’s Future “These things are coming,” said EchoVC investor Eghosa Omoigui. “There are IPO-potential startups growing in Africa. You will see tech companies coming out of Africa with gigantic revenues, enough to support a public launch on a local exchange, or even go out on NASDAQ.” EchoVC We predict e-commerce, digital finance, or a video on demand platform starting in Nigeria will create African tech’s first billion dollar home run. *While this article focuses strongly on new IT trends in West and East Africa, it’s important to note Southern Africa (namely Botswana and South Africa) has had an active tech scene for over a decade."	Bongô up	Tech Crunch	02/02/2020 03:47:10	https://techcrunch.com/2015/07/23/the-rise-of-silicon-savannah-and-africas-tech-movement/
Online Kids' Clothing Consignment Service thredUP Opens Its Next New Vertical: Juniors		January 28, 2013	As hinted at following the raise of its $14.5 million in Series C financing this fall, online kids’ clothing consignment thredUP is now expanding into new verticals, starting with clothing for teens. While previously, the company was focused on clothes for younger children – boys and girls, ages 12 months and up – the new “juniors” category is starting out with a focus on teen girl clothing only. following the raise of its $14.5 million in Series C financing thredUP Currently, the service is in beta testing, and only for the “clean out” side of the business, while the “buy” side (the juniors online shop) will come later on after the company has built up inventory, and figured out how to overcome the challenges around sizing and merchandising that come with launching a new vertical. ThredUP, which has raised $23 million to date in outside funding, pivoted from operating an online clothes swap back in spring 2012, to the more fully featured online consignment shop it has today. Parents send in their gently worn, high-quality kids’ clothing in a provided bag, and then receive either cash or credits to spend in thredUP’s online store. In July, the company added a couple of former Netflix execs to its team, in advance of plans to scale its business considerably. pivoted from operating an online clothes swap the company added a couple of former Netflix execs This October, CEO James Reinhart told us that the company’s plans, starting in 2013, would involve new verticals beyond clothing for small children, including not only juniors, as is being introduced now, but also maternity, women’s and men’s consignment clothing. As with the kids’ service, there are rules around what juniors’ clothes thredUP accepts. The model here is consignment, not hand-me-downs, so the clothes have to be in fairly good condition and from brands others would want to buy. For example, thredUP says it’s not accepting Walmart and Target brands into its forthcoming juniors clothing store, but will take things from Hollister, Aeropostale, American Rag, Roxy, Billabong, Volcom, Levis, Jolt, Celebrity Pink, Baby Phat, Tommy Girl, Bongo, Dollhouse, Union Bay and others, to give you an idea. Junior sizes include 00, 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13 and 15. At the time of its Series C, thredUP was averaging around 7,000 new paying customers per month, and had an online catalog between 65,000 and 70,000 items. The company says that it has seen 340,000 visits in January so far, and is still averaging about a 50 percent retention rate/repeat customer rate. Inventory grows at about 4,000-5,000 items per day, and the company now has over 400,000 members.	Bongô up	Tech Crunch	02/02/2020 03:47:21	https://techcrunch.com/2013/01/28/online-kids-clothing-consignment-service-thredup-opens-its-next-new-vertical-juniors/
RjDj Now Lets You Create Your Own Trippy, Reactive Music For iPhone And iPad		March 30, 2010	Back in fall 2008, when the App Store was less than 100 days old, I wrote about an incredibly trippy and innovative application called RjDj (iTunes link). The app is a bit hard to describe, but it essentially takes audio or motion input from your iPhone, passes it through a variety of filters, and outputs music that’s customized to your surroundings (you really need to try it for yourself to see what it’s like).  Now, RjDj is taking its application to the next level: the company has released a new desktop app called RJC1000 that allows Mac users to easily build their own reactive music for use on any of RjDj’s growing roster of applications. wrote RjDj released To take a step back, when you use RjDj, you listen to what’s called a “Scene” — a combination of filters that determine what your reactive music sounds like. A Scene can pay attention to your iPhone’s microphone, accelerometer (so it can ‘hear’ motion), and even your GPS position.  It then interprets those inputs to generate a dynamic music soundtrack.  Scenes can vary a lot, ranging from pleasant rain drops to psychedelic audio warping that loops back everything you hear endlessly. With the RJC1000 app, you can customize Scenes to make them sound exactly like you want them to.  You can get a feel for how this works in the YouTube video below. I explored the RJC1000 app to try building my own sound Scene, and quickly came to the conclusion that I had absolutely no idea what I was doing. Fortunately that didn’t really matter — after dragging a few effects from the list of options onto the main sound board, I found myself listening to something best described as an auditory mix of running water, crickets, bongo drums, and a swarm of butterflies. I’m sure someone with more patience and skill could come up with something significantly more pleasant. Alongside the new application, RjDj is launching the RjDj Network, which allows reactive musicians (this genre is called “reactive music”) to sell their creations to anyone using the RjDj iPhone application, via in-app purchases.  RjDj is taking a 50% rev share of any Scenes sold. The company will also be launching an iPad application on April 3 called RJ Voyager that allows for playback of any Scenes from the RjDj Network, and also let users tweak Scenes on the fly, editing the effects they want playing as their music is generated in real-time. RjDj Network RjDj founder Michael Breidenbruecker says that developers and musicians have previously been able to create their own Scenes using Pure Data, but that most of them found it too abstract to use (the screenshots I looked at were pretty daunting). The RJC1000 application uses the Pure Data DSP framework, but makes it significantly easier to build a Scene.  He says that beyond the iPad app, RjDj has other applications in the works that will support Scenes from the RjDj network. Pure Data	Bongô up	Tech Crunch	02/02/2020 03:47:32	https://techcrunch.com/2010/03/30/rjdj-now-lets-you-create-your-own-trippy-reactive-music-for-iphone-and-ipad/
Books and roses		April 23, 2017	Anyone who thinks paper books are dead has never been in a Barcelona bookshop the day before Sant Jordi. The Patron Saint festival is Catalunya’s equivalent of Valentine’s day. But as well as giving long-stemmed red roses people give books. Lots and lots of books. Some €20 million worth of books are sold (gifted) on the day itself. April 23 also happens to be World Book day — a more recent celebration of ink spilt on the printed page. But in Barcelona today is El Dia de Sant Jordi. World Book day In the days leading up to the festival every bookshop in the Catalan capital is packed with people, tables piled high with shiny paperbacks perpetually ringed by shoppers seeking the perfect literary gift. Stop for a moment to thumb through a title and you’ll invariably be jostled aside by the sheer force of foot traffic as book buyers criss-cross each others’ alphabetic desires. This year the bone-white balconies of Gaudí’s Casa Batlló have been dressed in skirts of red roses to mark the occasion, catching the eyes of a smattering of tourists who stand in Passeig de Gracia taking what I imagine they believe to be romantic selfies. Meanwhile, across the road in the book-lined aisles of Casa del Libro, another expression of love: the cash registers are under siege like it’s Christmas eve. According to 2015 statistics from the city government, Sant Jordi represents between 5% and 8% of regional booksellers’ annual turnover. Some 1.5 million books were sold on the day alone that year. This year I watch Saturday shoppers who have successfully made their last minute gift selections stand like communion takers in queues that snake up to twenty people deep into the aisles. You really have to wonder how many more books would be sold if the payment process wasn’t such a bottleneck and could rise to meet the demand. city government Casa del Libro is Spain’s largest bookstore chain, so I’m not too surprised to find it has an e-book section — where it sells its own e-reader (called the Tagus). On the eve of Sant Jordi, this brightly lit but decidedly pequeño corner looks very forlorn indeed as shoppers push past it looking for paper. It goes without saying that no one wants a lover who gifts an e-book. Perhaps one reason why sales of paper books look to have picked up, and e-books may have plateaued… sales of paper books look to have picked up e-books may have plateaued In smaller bookshops in Barcelona extra staff are standing by to individually wrap the books you buy — like the barrio bookstore I wander into later, leaving with a copy of Pier Paolo Pasolini’s Poésie en forme de rose freshly bound in red paper. The shop’s backroom has stacks of antique books right up to the rafters and is busy with browsers long into the evening. A pianist in the corner provides a live score. It’s clear Sant Jordi is not just about buying books; it’s a festival of mood and literature. Around the city in the days leading up to April 23 writers give talks, read poems, tell stories. On the day itself the streets fill up with even more people and color as book sellers and rose sellers man their tables and buckets, and couples walk hand in hand between. Rose stalls outnumber book stalls by about 4:1 even though petals aren’t always cheaper than paper. Many stalls are selling in aid of a local cause like a school trip or a charity such as Save the Children. In Plaça de Catalunya you might be lucky enough to stumble across a favorite writer signing copies of their latest book. Equally you can savor strolling through the calmer buzz of a local barrio turned out together into the streets. Sant Jordi is a celebration of how something that’s bound within can be displayed without, be it inside the pages of book or the unfurled beauty of a flower. It’s a celebration of the energy that goes into the process of creation, individually and collectively. It’s as much about emotion and sensation as it is about books and reading. I’ve lost count of the number of articles I’ve seen asking whether e-books equal the death of paper. To my mind that’s like asking if a digital screen means the end of roses because you can digitally display a flower on a screen. Clearly there’s a place for screens, and there’s a place for paper. Two different formats, two different messages — and a whole range of uses and utilities. Buying a book can be about accessing information as you can access information via a screen. Equally it can be about something radically different — like saying how you feel or what you hope without needing to articulate that exactly. The medium can be an essential part of the message, especially so where gifts are concerned. Common sense says a digital rose does not smell as sweet as the real deal. Nor does an e-book contain the depth and history of paper. Maybe someone, somewhere will invent a better e-reader that does not lock books inside a single-format push-button frame. It would also need a new type of e-paper that feels and acts much more like the real thing. Something that could be bundled into stacks and have readers scribble on it, bend corners, flip pages back and forth, feel the heft and weight of the book and be able to contemplate their place in it. We’re not there yet. Especially as technology loves an upgrade, not a patina. Perpetual erasure is very hard to get sentimental about. It would also make for a very nihilistic kind of fiesta. And that’s before you even consider suggestions the human brain might actually retain and comprehend information rather better when reading and writing on paper vs screens. (Which — if true — would really give paper a cutting edge.) suggestions There’s also so much space for interesting interplay between the formats we humans love to engage with (in this case screens and paper). Which means there’s room for cross overs from digital to print too, just as there has obviously been plenty of publications going the other way. Here’s one local and pertinent case in point: Yo Fuí a EGB is a Facebook page set up in 2011 by two Generation X Spanish guys, Jorge Díaz and Javier Ikazt, who started out by posting photos and videos of stuff they remembered from being kids in the 1980s and going to a typical Spanish elementary school. If that sounds a bit niche, cuidado, it’s not. The Facebook page has more than 1.2M likes, and the interest generated from the community they built digitally has been transformed into multiple best-selling (print) books, board games and now even a TV series. (Yes, there are e-books too.) So an engaged digital community that remade long lost physical ones has been successfully repurposed into multiple different formats — including ‘old school’ ink and paper media. Really this should surprise no one. interesting interplay publications going the other way Yo Fuí a EGB Facebook page the community they built digitally (print) books TV series Or, if I may put it another way, a rose is a rose is a rose is a rose. tl;dr: sometimes you want the real rose, sometimes a beautiful picture of roses will do.	CuidadoJá	Tech Crunch	02/02/2020 03:48:06	https://techcrunch.com/2017/04/23/books-and-roses/
Military-grade translation coming to civilian iPods		January 29, 2008	Get the hell outta here. Special iPod  software that our soldiers use to communicate with Arabic- and Kurdish-speaking people will be made available to regular Joe-Jobbers like you and me soon. That’s quacktastic. Here’s more from Computerworld… iPod For example, soldiers can show Iraqi citizens a photo of a terrorist, and the iPod says in Arabic, “have you seen this person?” Another part of the application plays a wide catalog of useful phrases, and a character on the screen shows appropriate hand gestures to go with it. These phrases are combined into “missions.” For example, soldiers can open the “checkpoint mission,” and all the phrases, images, gestures and other data useful for communicating with drivers at a checkpoint are listed. The consumer-friendly version of this software is supposed to come out sometime later this year and will apparently contain many different languages and “mission” options for the more mundane, flabby traveler. Like when I was in Spain last October and nobody would tell me where to get something to eat after all the stuff in the hotel had shut down. Instead of throwing a tantrum in the middle of the lobby, I could have simply pointed my iPod at someone and yelled “Cuidado!” or something like that. Army’s iPod translator to be available for consumers [Computerworld] Army’s iPod translator to be available for consumers	CuidadoJá	Tech Crunch	02/02/2020 03:48:41	https://techcrunch.com/2008/01/29/military-grade-translation-coming-to-civilian-ipods/
Coinbase launches debit card in the UK		April 10, 2019	When you buy cryptocurrencies on Coinbase, many users simply don’t know what to do with them. Customers in the U.K. can now get a good old plastic card and spend cryptocurrencies in-store and on any online website. Coinbase a good old plastic card This is a Visa card, so it should work with any merchant on the Visa network. The company is launching a separate mobile app called Coinbase  Card to manage your cryptocurrency balances. For instance, you’ll be able to choose whether you want to use your Bitcoin, Ethereum or Litecoin balance with your card. Coinbase The app supports any cryptocurrency currently available on Coinbase. There’s no need to transfer crypto assets from the main Coinbase app to the Coinbase Card app — the card grabs cryptocurrencies directly from your Coinbase account. The card supports contactless payments as well as ATM withdrawals. Transactions appear instantly in the app with the details of the exchange rate. Now let’s talk about fees. Ordering a card costs £4.95 ($6.50) — the first 1,000 customers can get it for free. Each transaction costs 2.49 percent in fees — 1.49 percent in conversion fee and 1 percent in transaction fee. If you spend money in other European countries, it costs 2.69 percent in fee. Outside of Europe, it costs 5.49 percent per transaction — maybe you should consider using another card in this situation. The chargeback processing fee is quite expensive as well, as it costs £20 ($26.20). There’s no maintenance fee, no additional cost for ATM withdrawals as long as you withdraw less than £200 per month. Behind the scene, Paysafe is issuing the card. Apto Payments, the company formerly known as Shift Payments, is developing the Coinbase Card app. You may remember that Coinbase previously partnered with Shift Payments to issue a card in the U.S. But you can’t get a Coinbase card in the U.S. anymore. partnered with Shift Payments Eventually, Coinbase plans to roll out the Coinbase Card in other European countries.	Apto	Tech Crunch	02/02/2020 03:49:00	https://techcrunch.com/2019/04/10/coinbase-launches-debit-card-in-the-uk/
